Source,Title,Headings,author,Published,Publish_Day,Publish_Month,Publish_Year,Publish_Time,Read_Time,Article
The Independent,‘Are you two really the best we’ve got?’: Election summed up with excruciating question to Sunak and Starmer,[],Athena Stavrou,27 June 2024 at 3:03 pm·2-min read,27,June,2024,03:03:00,2,"A voter asked Rishi Sunak and Sir Keir Starmer directly whether they are “really the best we’ve got” at last night’s election debate – eliciting an eruption of applause from the audience.Sunak and Starmer traded furious blows on Wednesday night in a live BBC head-to-head election debate.The Labour and Conservative leaders attacked each another over migration, tax, and Brexit as they took questions from a live audience in Nottingham.However, it was a question on the rivals’ personal qualities that drew the loudest round of applause.Robert Blackstock asked: “Are you two really the best we’ve got to be the next prime minister of our great country?”Robert Blackstock fiercely criticised both party leaders (BBC)The voter began by saying he thought Sunak had made “a fair job of being chancellor but you’re a pretty mediocre prime minister” and that Starmer was having his “strings are being pulled by very senior members of the Labour party”.The crowd was animated as people were seen gasping and a huge round of applause began.Audience members smiled and raised their eyebrows as Blackstock asked the question (BBC)Starmer said he was not surprised by the question, after 14 years of Tory rule leaving the country “in such a state”.“They’ve had loads of promises made in the last election about what will happen which haven’t been delivered on. That does beat the hope out of people,” he said.“So, this is an opportunity to restore that hope. I don’t think we can do that by making sort of grand promises of things that can’t be delivered.”Sunak responded by listing what he thinks are the Conservatives’ best achievements during his time in Downing Street.Both Sunak and Starmer looked sheepish as the audience applauded the question (BBC)He urged the audience: “Allow me to finish the job I started.”However, when interviewed after the debate, Blackstock said the two candidates did not provide sufficient answers on why they are good enough for the job.“I was disappointed with the response from both Rishi and Sir Keir. Neither of them wanted to say why they were good,” he said.“They were going by what they’ve done in the past. They weren’t being positive. For a prime minister, from my perspective, we want a personality. We want somebody we can recognise. We want somebody on the world stage that is going to project our Great Britain.”"
The Independent,Everything we know about Tory election betting scandal – and who is being investigated,"['Who is involved in the betting scandal?', 'What are the rules for MPs and others on betting with inside knowledge?']",Albert Toth,27 June 2024 at 2:37 pm·10-min read,27,June,2024,02:37:00,10,"Rishi Sunak’s election campaign has been dealt a major blow in the run up to July 4 as his party becomes embroiled in a controversial betting scandal.An ongoing investigation by the Gambling Commission has now led to two Conservative party candidates seeing support withdrawn by the party. At least three more party figures and six police officers are being investigated, alongside one Labour candidate.Cabinet minister Alister Jack recently came under fire for “joking” about placing three bets on the timing of the election. After some pressure, he later admitted he was telling the truth, but that the bets were placed before May. The minister for Scotland has denied being under investigation.For the latest political updates ahead of the general election, follow The Independent’s live coverageThe following day, Tory MP Sir Phillip Davies came under fire when it was reported he had placed a slightly different bet: £8,000 that he would lose his seat of Shipley. He is defending a 6,242 majority in the West Yorkshire seat. Sir Phillip has denied doing anything illegal, and it is not believed he is under investigation.First uncovered two weeks ago, the scandal began when it was revealed now-suspended Conservative candidate Craig Williams placed a bet of £100 on the election taking place in July, just 3 days before Sunak announced the date in May.Several people with ties to the Conservatives have subsequently been placed under investigation for allegedly placing similar bets on when the general election would take place.Responding to the discovery, Mr Williams said: “I put a flutter on the general election some weeks ago. This has resulted in some routine inquiries and I confirm I will fully cooperate with these.”Tory betting scandal: Tony Lee, Chris Williams, Alister Jack, Rishi Sunak, Laura Saunders, Russell George (Getty/PA/Supplied)“I don’t want it to be a distraction from the campaign, I should have thought how it looks.”He was suspended nearly two weeks later alongside fellow Tory candidate Laura Saunders. The move drew criticism from many opposition and Conservative MPs alike, who said the prime minister was too slow too act.Speaking to The Independent, Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer slammed the prime minister for his handling of the scandal: “If they had been my candidates, they’d have been straight out of the door and their feet wouldn’t have touched the floor”“But to wait a week, to make excuses like that, is inexcusable.”Amongst the six Metropolitan police officers being investigated, one has been arrested – a member of Mr Sunak’s close protection team. The Met has also denied being the source of names under investigation leaked to press, calling the speculation “a poor distraction technique.”The Gambling Commission has now expanded its investigation to look at hundreds of suspicious bets in the run up to the general election.“These investigations are ongoing … one of them is a criminal investigation that’s being conducted by the police,” the prime minister told the BBC Question Time Leaders Special general election debate.“What I can tell you is if anyone is found to have broken the rules, not only should they face the full consequences of the law, I will make sure that they are booted out of the Conservative Party.”Who is involved in the betting scandal?Craig WilliamsCraig Williams, the PM’s closest parliamentary aide, was the first person caught up in the scandal. He admitted placing a bet on the election prior to Mr Sunak’s announcement after he was approached by a journalist.The 39-year-old Tory candidate for Montgomeryshire and Glyndwr placed a £100 bet with 5-1 odds at Ladbrokes, meaning he would have won £500, but his name was raised as potentially a “politically exposed person”, so the wager was not registered.Former MP Craig Williams (UK Parliament)That sparked the Gambling Commission writing to firms demanding the details of all bets made on a July election after 1 May, which it is now combing through. It is now believed to have widened its search beyond MPs and candidates to their friends and relatives as well.Bookmakers are particularly cautious over “novelty” betting markets such as the general election.According to The Guardian, which first reported the story, Mr Williams placed his bet via an online account that would have required him to provide personal details, including his date of birth and debit card. The bookmaker also knows the location of the bet.Ladbrokes declined to comment on the incident but the Gambling Commission issued a statement confirming that it was investigating.Mr Williams apologised after admiting that he had placed a wager on the bet, but refused to comment further while the GC carried out its probe.“I clearly made a huge error of judgment, that’s for sure, and I apologise,” he told. “I will not be expanding on my statement because it’s an independent process.”Laura SaundersLaura Saunders was the second person to be named in the affair.Tory candidate for Bristol North West, Ms Saunders is also under investigation by the Gambling Commission over claims she may have had inside knowledge about the prime minister’s decision to call a snap poll for 4 July. She has worked for the party since 2015.Laura Saunders and Tony Lee pictured together (Supplied)According to the BBC, which first named Ms Saunders as the candidate under investigation, she worked most recently at the party’s international division at Conservative Campaign Headquarters, which works with other centre-right parties around the world.Tony LeeTony Lee, husband of Ms Saunders, has also been implicated in the scandal. He is the Conservative Party’s director of campaigning, having worked on former West Midlands mayor Andy Street’s successful 2021 campaign.Mr Lee stepped back from his position on June 19 following reports that he was also under investigation by the Gambling Commission alongside his wife.Nick MasonNick Mason became the Tory chief data officer after unsuccessfully running for the party for Jarrow in Tyneside in the 2015. He was named by The Sunday Times as the fourth person to be investigated by the Gambling Commission.Mr Mason is alleged to have placed dozens of bets over an unknown period, with winnings which would total thousands of pounds. He has also taken a leave of absence from his position. A spokeperson for Mr Mason has declined to comment but denies wrong doing.Russell GeorgeRussell George is a Tory member of Welsh parliament, representing the same constituency as Mr Williams. It was revealed by The Guardian on June 25 that he was under investigation by the gambling watchdog.Welsh Conservatives leader Andrew RT Davies said: “Russell George has informed me that he has received a letter from the Gambling Commission regarding bets on the timing of the general election.“Russell George has stepped back from the Welsh Conservative shadow cabinet while these investigations are ongoing.”He says that all other Conservative members of the Senedd have denied placing any bets.Kevin CraigBringing the scandal to the Labour party, now-suspended candidate Kevin Craig was also confirmed to be under investigation by the gambling watchdog on June 25Running in Central Suffolk and North Ipswich, Mr Craig had bet on himself to lose the seat on July 4. The seat was won by the Conservatives with a majority of just over 20,000 in 2019.Former Labour candidate Kevin Craig (YouTube)Releasing a statement on social media, Mr Craig said he had made a “stupid error,” adding that he intended to give his winnings to charity.“This was a huge mistake, for which I apologise unreservedly,” he said.“I have so much respect for how Keir Starmer has changed the Labour Party and I have been fighting so hard to win this seat and change the country alongside him.“However, it is right that the party upholds the highest standards for its Parliamentary candidates - just as the public expects the highest standards from any party hoping to serve in government.”Alister JackConservative cabinet minister Alister Jack admitted to placing three bets on the date of the general election on June 25, saying he had made £2,100 from one of them. He later claimed his comments were “a joke”.The minister for Scotland then backtracked, admitting that he had placed several bets before May. In April, Mr Jack says he placed a successful bet that the election would fall between July and September, after losing two similar bets made in March.Scotland minister Alister Jack (Michal Wachucik/PA) (PA Wire)Mr Jack has denied wrongdoing in a statement: “I had no knowledge of the date of the election until the day it was called.“I placed no bets in May and am not under investigation by the Gambling Commission.”Sir Phillip DaviesSir Phillip Davies has been the Conservative MP for Shipley, West Yorkshire since 2005 and is married to cabinet minister Esther McVey. He is currently the most rebellious serving Tory MP, having voted against the government over 250 times.On June 26, it was revealed that Sir Phillip had even rebelled against himself, placing an £8,000 bet to lose the seat he has held for nearly 20 years.“I hope to win. I’m busting a gut to win. I expect to lose. In the 2005 election, I busted a gut to win. I expected to lose,” the MP told The Sun.“I had a bet on myself to lose in the 2005 election, and my bet went down the pan.”“It’s nobody’s business apart from mine,” Sir Phillip said, adding that he had not done anything illegal. It is not believed that he is under investigation by the Gambling Commission.A police officer in Rishi Sunak’s close protection teamA police officer in Mr Sunak’s close protection team was arrested and suspended over alleged bets about the timing of the general election.The police constable from the Met’s Royalty and Specialist Protection Command was arrested on 17 June on suspicion of misconduct in public office after the betting watchdog contacted the force last Friday.The officer was taken into custody and bailed pending further enquiries, with the case being referred to the Independent Office for Police Conduct, according to the Met. The force has confirmed is serving on restricted duties.Five more police officersOn June 25, the Met confirmed that they had been informed of five more police officers placed under investigation by the Gambling Commission.In a statement, the London police force said: “The officers are based on the Royalty and Specialist Command, the Parliamentary and Diplomatic Protection Command and the Central West Basic Command Unit. None of them work in a close protection role.“Decisions on whether they will be subject to any restrictions will be taken in due course.”What are the rules for MPs and others on betting with inside knowledge?Using confidential information to gain an unfair advantage when betting may constitute a criminal offence. Gamblers are not allowed to use inside information to place a bet or to instruct someone else to do so on their behalf.They are also not allowed to pass inside information on to someone else which they use for betting.Additionally, the MPs’ code of conduct bars members from “causing significant damage to the reputation and integrity of the house”. An MP placing a bet with inside knowledge is likely to cross this threshold."
PA Media: UK News,What are the 'bellwether' seats at the General Election?What are the 'bellwether' seats at the General Election?,[],Ian Jones,27 June 2024 at 9:45 am·2-min read,27,June,2024,09:45:00,2,"In general elections, constituencies where the local result has a habit of matching the overall national outcome are known as “bellwethers”.They are seats that have a pattern of changing hands only when the government itself changes hands.A handful of constituencies have been bellwethers for decades, and as such are watched closely for what they may – or may not – suggest about the outcome of the entire election.The seat with the longest track record of being a bellwether is Dartford in Kent.Since 1964, whichever party wins Dartford has also gone on to form the government.At this election, Conservative candidate Gareth Johnson is defending a notional majority in Dartford of 14,704.(PA Graphics)This is described as a notional majority because it is what Mr Johnson is likely to have won in 2019 had that contest taken place using the new constituency boundaries that have been introduced across the UK for the 2024 election.For Dartford to change hands on July 4, there would have to be a direct swing to Labour in the share of the vote of 15.9 percentage points.This is the equivalent of a net change of 16 in every 100 people who voted Conservative last time switching sides.It is large enough to rank Dartford at number 185 on Labour’s list of targets, based on the size of swing it needs to gain seats from other parties.Elsewhere, three seats have been bellwethers at every general election since February 1974: Loughborough, Northampton North and Watford.All three are top Labour targets at this election, and the Tories would lose them to Sir Keir Starmer’s party on swings of 5.9 percentage points, 3.9 points and 1.4 points respectively.Watford ranks at number nine on Labour’s target list, while Northampton North is 38th and Loughborough is 61st.Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer with student nurses during an early campaign stop in Worcester last month (PA)Worcester has been a bellwether since 1979.At the 1997 general election, attracting the support of the so-called “Worcester woman” was considered by Labour to be vital for victory nationwide.At this election, Labour needs a swing of 6.7 points to take Worcester from the Conservatives, ranking it at number 70 on the party’s target list.Sir Keir held two campaign events in Worcester soon after the election was called.Two other seats have been bellwethers since 1979: Harrow East and Gloucester.Harrow East in north London would need a swing of 8.6 percentage points for Labour to gain it from the Conservatives, while Gloucester would need one of 9.7 points.Prime Minister Rishi Sunak has twice visited Harrow East since the start of the election campaign."
Yahoo News UK,"Who is Keir Starmer? The man tipped as next PM vows to 'rebuild Britain'Everything you need to know about the man who, on current poll ratings, is set to be the UK’s next prime minister","['His early life', 'His family', 'His parents', 'His education', 'Why is he a sir?', 'Starmer on... the NHS', 'Starmer on… immigration', 'Starmer on... the cost of living crisis', 'Starmer on... private schools', 'Starmer on… the House of Lords']",Hannah Fearn,Updated 23 May 2024 at 6:59 pm·7-min read,23,May,2024,06:59:00,7,"The son of a toolmaker and the first of his family to go to university, Sir Keir Starmer is the most working class Labour Party leader in a generation.Yet when focus groups are asked what they think his favourite drink is, they guess that he’s partial to a gin and tonic rather than a pint down the local boozer. Many also assume his title is hereditary.So what do you really need to know about the man who, on current poll ratings, is set to be the UK’s next prime minister?His early lifeKeir Starmer was born in Southwark, south London, in 1962, as the second of four children. His parents were Labour Party members and named him after Keir Hardie, the party’s first leader in parliament.The family moved out of the capital and he grew up in Hurst Green, a village just outside the small Surrey town of Oxted. He was active in youth politics from his teenage years but was also a skilled musician, taking music lessons alongside Norman Cook, who later became better known as a member of The Housemartins and the DJ Fatboy Slim.Starmer played the flute, piano, violin and recorder and was a junior exhibitioner at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama.His familyStarmer is married to Victoria, a former solicitor who later retrained in occupational health and now works for the NHS. The pair met through their work in the law in the early 2000s and married in Essex in 2007.She was first seen accompanying her husband when the couple were filmed clapping for carers during the pandemic in 2020 outside their home in Camden. They have two children, a son and daughter, but both are kept out of the public eye.Victoria's father was Jewish and originally came from Poland, while her mother converted when they got married. Starmer has said in a previous interview that ""my wife in particular wants our children to know the faith of her family"" and that they ""observe some of the practices, for example Friday night prayers"".Keir Starmer with parents, Rodney and Josephine, at his graduation. (Twitter/Keir Starmer)His parentsThe Labour leader's father, Rodney Starmer, worked as a toolmaker in a factory, and his mother Josephine Starmer (née Baker), was a nurse.His father worked long, 14-hour days but spent his time outside work caring for Josephine, who was diagnosed with the autoimmune condition Still’s disease. She required two hip and knee replacements twice in her lifetime and struggled with arthritic pain.As a young man Starmer also helped care for his mother, which he has said led to him being more emotionally reserved. His sister, Katy, recalled: “He’s had to be a grown-up all his life. I’ve always been quite open about my feelings – Keir is good at most things, but not that.” Josephine Starmer died in 2015, and his father three years later.His educationStarmer passed the 11-plus examination, and attended Reigate Grammar School from age 11. While he was at the school it became an independent fee-paying institution, but as an existing student he was exempt from fees, and his tuition in the sixth form was covered by a bursary.After school he studied law at the University of Leeds, this first in his family to attend university, graduating with a first class degree in 1985. He undertook postgraduate law studied at the University of Oxford, where he served as editor of a radical magazine, Socialist Alternatives.A photograph of a younger Starmer as shown on ITV's Piers Morgan's Life Stories in 2021. (ITV)Why is he a sir?Stamer was appointed a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in 2014 in recognition of his work in the legal profession, culminating in a five-year term as Director of Public Prosecutions.He first became a barrister in 1987 at the Middle Temple, later joining Doughty Street Chambers and was appointed a Queen’s Counsel in 2002, aged just 39. In 2008 he was appointed head of the Crown Prosecution Service and DPP.During his tenure he chose to prosecute three Labour MPs and a Conservative in the wake of the parliamentary expenses scandal, and was responsible for prosecuting former MP Chris Huhne and his ex-wife Vicky Pryce for perverting the course of justice after Pryce claimed responsibility for her former husband’s speeding offence.Starmer on... the NHSThe Labour leader has said that, if elected, his government would “get the NHS working around the clock and pay staff properly to do it”.The remark followed a commitment to provide £1.1bn in funding for the health service to cut waiting lists by paying doctors and nurses to carry out additional out-of-hours care, which would be funded by axing tax breaks for wealthy “non-doms” who hoard money overseas. He added: “The Conservative Party that brought our NHS to its knees will put it in the ground. We have to get it back on its feet.”Starmer describes the NHS as “the crowdfunded solution for all of us”, reinforcing his commitment to healthcare being free at the point of use, but says reform is inevitable or the health service would “remain on life support”. He has pledged to integrate up-to-date technology into every part of the NHS including using artificial intelligence to diagnose disease earlier and more accurately.He supported the doctors strikes, telling ministers: “Don’t break junior doctors, talk to them. Get in the room [and] sort it out.”Starmer with his wife, Lady Victoria Starmer, at the Labour Party Conference in October 2023. (Alamy)Starmer on… immigrationThe government has “lost control of borders”, according to Labour. Starmer has said a Labour government would set up a new policy unit to tackle illegal migration and has suggested that a returns agreement for asylum seekers could be negotiated with the European Union to solve the small boats crisis.He described the government’s thwarted Rwanda plan, which would see illegal migrants deported to the African nation but has to be put into practice due to legal blocks, as a “gimmick” and a “farce” and has promised to reverse it.Starmer on... the cost of living crisisStarmer has sought to keep Rishi Sunak’s handling of the cost of living crisis in the minds of voters by claiming that “his fingerprints are all over their struggling household budgets”. In a letter to his shadow cabinet, leaked to The Guardian, he wrote: “Rishi Sunak is the chief architect of choices prioritising the wealthiest and of the government’s failure to get a grip of the economy and get growth going.”He has said he would prioritise tackling inflation, blaming it for putting up prices and eroding household savings, but has pledged to “take the difficult and responsible decisions” to bring it down.Starmer pictured in 2010, when he was director of public prosecution at the CPS, making a statement about MPs who face charges over their expenses claims. (Getty)Starmer on... private schoolsLabour has dropped its early promise to scrap charitable status for private schools, but has committed to levying a 20% VAT rate on school fees removing their “unfair tax break”. The money raised, he said, will be used to address the “appalling state” of the school system for all children.“It’s not an attack on private schools. It’s just saying an exemption you have had is going to go,” he warned private schools who have been critical of the plan – reminding them they are not obliged to pass that tax on to parents in the form of increased fees.Starmer on… the House of LordsWhen he was first Labour leader, Starmer proposed a “root and branch reform of the centre of government… rooting out unearned privilege and addressing unaccountable power”.But his promise to scrap the House of Lords within the first four years of a new parliament - a controversial move that caused a split among his party’s grandees, has been abandoned.Starmer still backs plans for a second chamber “electoral legitimacy”, but as his party nears government he has stepped away from the most radical form of that pledge. He is now reportedly committed to cutting the number of hereditary peers, reducing the size of the chamber and introducing a new appointments process."
Yahoo News UK,"Who is Richard Tice? Reform’s former leader turned Farage sidekickThe candidate for Hartlepool has seen his party's popularity swell in recent months, with one poll showing reform ahead of the Conservatives.",[],Andrew Naughtie,Updated 14 June 2024 at 6:45 pm·6-min read,14,June,2024,06:45:00,6,"Now that Nigel Farage has taken over as the leader of Reform UK, Richard Tice’s public profile is fading fast - but the Reform chairman remains involved in the party's operations.So far, the party has only one MP, Conservative defector Lee Anderson. But a recent poll has shown Reform overtaking the Tories, raising the possibility Anderson could hold his seat and even end up with fellow Reformers in the next Parliament.As the candidate for Hartlepool, where he stood as the Brexit Party candidate in 2019, Tice hopes to be one of them. So who is he, and what does he stand for?Childhood and educationBorn in Surrey in 1964 to James Tice, a showjumper, and Joan Tice, a horse trainer. Educated at the private boarding school Uppingham, he studied at the University of Salford, gaining a degree in construction economics and quantity surveying – teeing him up for a career that he said would ""continue the family genes in the property industry"".Family (partner & kids)Tice has three children from a 24-year marriage that ended in divorce. He is now in a long-term relationship with the right-wing writer and journalist Isabel Oakeshott.She is perhaps best known for two notorious incidents that set her against leading Tories: a book that featured the heavily disputed allegation that David Cameron had engaged in sexual activity with a pig, and the release of embarrassing messages entrusted to her by Matt Hancock when she agreed to write a book with him.Keir Starmer profile: The toolmakers' son vowing to 'rebuild Britain'Rishi Sunak profile: The PM battling to stay in power of election gambleHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhich MPs are standing down before the next election? Full list mappedThe key issues that will decide the electionWhen is the first UK general election TV debate?What is purdah? The strict rule that governs what politicians can and can't sayNet worthWhile not quite in the same league as Rishi Sunak, Tice is one of the wealthiest people in British politics. As he describes it on his website, he made his multi-million-pound fortune over the course of “30 years of making things happen in property investment”, starting with a graduate job at a London firm in 1987.According to Tice, the company he leads as CEO, Quidnet Capital, has “bought and managed £500 million in commercial properties across the UK on behalf of clients”.He was also a key figure in the redevelopment of London’s Nine Elms district, near Battersea Power Station, a controversial project that has transformed a stretch of the Thames’s south bank with a welter of rapidly erected high-rise blocks.GB News linksAlong with Nigel Farage, Lee Anderson and several MPs on the right flank of the Tory party, Tice is a regular on the hard-right, culture war-focused TV outlet GB News. There he hosts a programme called “Richard Tice’s Sunday Sermon”, which serves as a platform for him to deliver his political analysis without the interruptions of an interviewer.However, despite the network being a relatively safe space for him in ideological terms, Tice’s appearances aren’t always amicable. A recent interview with host Andrew Pierce, a longtime right-wing commentator, saw him challenged fiercely about Reform’s chances in a summer election should one be called – with Pierce pointing to the “weirdos” selected by the party to fight numerous seats as evidence the party is “not ready”.Richard Tice, pictured in 2018 at a 'Leave Means Leave' campaign event, is focused on the issue of immigration. (Steve Finn/WENN)Tice was also involved in an incident that saw the network deemed in breach of broadcasting regulator Ofcom’s impartiality regulations, specifically an interview in which a former Brexit Party MEP failed to “sufficiently challenge” his views on immigration.The regulator is under increasing pressure to crack down on GB News heading into the election, with critics arguing it cannot be allowed to broadcast shows that feature Tory and Reform MPs interviewing each other without alternative points of view represented.Tice on NHSThe state and future of the NHS set to be one of this election’s main battlegrounds, and Reform’s key health policy is to spend £17 billion on the NHS on top of its current budget in an effort to get waiting lists down to zero. It also proposes introducing tax relief on private healthcare – something that has been criticised by opponents as a creeping step towards the privatisation of healthcare writ large.Tice’s stated rationale is that the reason the service is struggling is because the money it needs is being spent on other things that the public do not in fact support. Top of the list is Net Zero, which the party and its predecessors have long decried as a pointless “woke” project.In April, Tice used a press conference to frame the choice starkly. “We have a choice in this country, it seems to me,” he said. “A pretty clear choice. Do we want zero waiting lists in two years, and to keep them there? That is the Reform choice. Or do we want net zero CO2 emissions in 25 years? That is the Labour choice.”Tice on immigrationImmigration is by far Reform UK’s top issue, with the party looking to build on Farage’s two decades of campaigning against it in its legal and illegal forms.As far as the election goes, Tice and the party are targeting the continuing arrival of small boats of people travelling across the English Channel, many of them seeking asylum. He has criticised the government for failing to stop “mass immigration” post-Brexit, and described Rishi Sunak’s Rwanda policy as “a disaster”, arguing on GB News that its supposed deterrent value was revealed to be zero just hours after the House of Commons finally passed the law.Reform chairman Richard Tice (L) and leader Nigel Farage speak at the party's economic policy launch at Church House in London. (Alamy Live News)“Within a matter of hours more boats, absolutely packed full, overfilled with illegal migrants, were setting off from the beaches. And we learnt on Tuesday morning that sadly five people, including a young child, drowned leaving the beaches. That's not a deterrent. That's an absolute disaster.”Instead of deporting people to Rwanda, he is arguing for a “pick up and take back” policy that would see small boat arrivals deposited back on French soil. As evidence that this is both practical and humane, he has cited similar policies deployed in the US and Australia.However, he has not addressed the fact that Australia’s policy has been criticised internationally for leaving so-called “boat people” confined to facilities on the island of Nauru, where there have been incidents of suicide and self-immolation.Tice on cost of living crisisPerhaps unsurprisingly given he is trying to peel away former Tory voters, Tice has criticised recent Tory prime ministers harshly for overseeing Britain’s intense cost of living crisis. In 2022, he accused then-prime minister Boris Johnson of “waffling” over the situation. “Clueless, out of touch, no ideas, no help,” he tweeted. “Shocking.”He has also warned that the prospect of a “disastrous” Labour government will offer no prospect of meaningful relief for struggling households.Instead, Reform proposes lifting the minimum level of income tax to £20,000 while cutting various other taxes – among them fuel duty, another gesture to the party’s rejection of environmentalism as a top priority."
Yahoo News UK,"Will Nigel Farage's Reform UK 'beat' the Tories in the election?With some polling figures putting the Tories and Reform UK nearly neck and neck, could Farage's party really end up with nearly as many MPs as Sunak's?","['What do the latest polls say?', 'Could Reform UK get more MPs than the Tories?', 'Could the Lib Dems be the official opposition party?', 'What is proportional representation?']",James Cheng-Morris and  Ellen Manning,Updated 14 June 2024 at 6:33 pm·7-min read,14,June,2024,06:33:00,7,"Leading pollster John Curtice has poured cold water on suggestions that Reform UK is now beating the Conservative Party in the general election polls.As representatives from seven parties took prepared to take part in a TV debate on Thursday, a YouGov survey for The Times newspaper said Reform’s support had increased by two points to 19%, putting them ahead of the Tories for the first time.Reform UK leader Nigel Farage took the the opportunity to hail the poll results in the debate, declaring: “We are now the opposition to Labour.”But Curtice urged caution, insisting that single polls should not be relied on. He told Radio 4's Today programme: ""This is one poll - we’ve actually, I think, had four other polls published in the last 24 hours - none of which have had Reform ahead, not even all of which have had Reform gaining ground, but quite a couple of them certainly suggesting it’s also got very close.""He said it may not be the case that Reform are ahead - and could be on average four or five points behind. But he said: ""This is still bad news for the Conservatives. The only way Rishi Sunak can hope to get even to base camp in narrowing the lead that Labour have started off with this campaign was to squeeze the Reform vote.""He added: ""Rather than making progress, things are actually going backwards, not least of course because of Nigel Farage’s decision to fight this campaign.""With many speculating that Reform UK with Farage at the helm could ""beat"" the Tories, Yahoo News UK takes a look.What do the latest polls say?YouGov’s voting intention tracker, updated on Tuesday, suggests the Tories and Reform UK are neck and neck.With Labour well ahead on 38%, the Tories are trailing on 18% – compared to a high of 53% under Boris Johnson in 2020 – with Reform UK just behind on 17% and the Liberal Democrats on 15%.However, there are multiple polls taking place at any one time by a number of different companies.According to the PA news agency, an average of all polls that were carried out wholly or partly during the seven days to June 13 puts Labour on 43%, 21 points ahead of the Conservatives on 22%, followed by Reform on 14%, the Lib Dems on 10% and the Greens on 6%.And while Reform’s average is up one percentage point on the figure for the previous week and the Tories are down one point, there is still an eight-point gap, on average, between the two.Could Reform UK get more MPs than the Tories?Unless something remarkable happens, in short: 'No' - and that's because of the first past the post (FPTP) voting system in which the candidate with the largest number of votes in their constituency is elected.According to the Electoral Reform Society, which is against FPTP, this system leads to a situation where “even if millions of voters support the same party, if they are thinly spread out across the UK they may only get the largest number of votes in a couple of these contests – so only win a few MPs"".“Tens of thousands of voters supporting a different party, but who live near each other, could end up with more MPs. This means the number of MPs a party has in parliament rarely matches their popularity with the public.”Rishi Sunak on the campaign trail on Wednesday. (AFP via Getty Images)Farage knows this well. As the leader of UKIP in the 2015 election, he saw his party win 12.6% of the nationwide vote and one seat. The Liberal Democrats won 7.9% of the vote... and eight seats.Indeed, YouGov last week released a poll – put together using the multi-level regression and post-stratification (MRP) surveying technique, from a sample size of nearly 60,000 respondents – which suggested the Tories would win just 140 seats, having won 365 in 2019. But this is still 140 more than the zero it projected Reform UK to win, in spite of its strong polling figures.The model had Reform UK ""performing strongly in a number of seats but still a long way off winning in any"", with projected second-placed finishes in 27 constituencies.YouGov's MRP projection. (YouGov)Granted, this model was formed between 24 May and 1 June, before Farage's headline-grabbing intervention on Monday last week in which he announced he would be standing as an MP.But, even as Reform UK polls closer than ever to the Tories, it's difficult to imagine the party winning more than a handful of seats.Chris Hopkins, director at polling firm Savanta, told Yahoo News UK that in one respect, Reform UK is at an advantage compared to Ukip in 2015 because ""Ukip took votes from both Labour and the Conservatives, and we are not seeing that with Reform UK – they are all coming from the Conservatives.""That is the consequence of Rishi Sunak making immigration a centrepiece of the campaign and failing to deliver on it. Even if you have voters that are neutral on immigration, they would say the small boats policy has been a disaster.""But even so, Hopkins said, Reform UK is still ""at a huge electoral disadvantage"" in that its votes are not very concentrated, they are very evenly spread.""There are going to be some races where Reform UK is strong - the Nigel Farage factor in Clacton is really interesting - but realistically its ceiling is five seats: and that’s a high ceiling.""Could the Lib Dems be the official opposition party?Liberal Democrat leader Sir Ed Davey on a campaign visit in Henley-in-Arden, Warwickshire, on Wednesday. (PA)Like Reform UK, Sir Ed Davey’s Liberal Democrats are performing well in the polls.In a sign of how defensive the Tory campaign is becoming, one online party advert claims voting for Reform UK or the Lib Dems could give Labour 100 extra seats, resulting in the biggest majority in its history.It depicts a scenario where the Conservatives are beaten into third place behind the Lib Dems, with just 57 seats, despite getting 19% of the vote and without Reform winning a single seat.Read more: Pollsters got it wrong in 2015, so could Labour’s lead be overestimated? (The Guardian)However, it remains unlikely the Lib Dems will finish second. YouGov’s MRP poll projected the party performing strongly, winning 48 seats. This would be up 37 from 2019, but still nowhere near the Tories’ projected 140.However, amid all this talk about projections, it’s worth remembering they are still only polls and not a definite indicator of how people will vote on 4 July. The 1992 and 2015 elections are notable examples of how polling didn’t match the end results of Tory wins.What is proportional representation?Proportional representation, as defined by the UK parliament, is an electoral system ""in which the distribution of seats corresponds closely with the proportion of the total votes cast for each party. For example, if a party gained 40% of the total votes, a perfectly proportional system would allow them to gain 40% of the seats.""This differs from the first past the post system, as set out above, in that a relatively high vote share rarely corresponds with increased seats for the smaller parties. In 2019, for example, the Lib Dems won 11.5% of the vote but only 1.7% – 11 – of the 650 seats.Unsurprisingly, both Reform UK and the Lib Dems support proportional representation.The Lib Dems this week made it part of their manifesto, with the party saying it would introduce the single transferrable vote method, a form of proportional representation which allows electors to rank their preference of candidates on the ballot.The party previously sought to change the UK’s voting system while in the coalition government under then-leader Nick Clegg, but voters rejected the plan in a 2011 referendum.Keir Starmer profile: The toolmakers' son vowing to 'rebuild Britain'Rishi Sunak profile: The PM battling to stay in power of election gambleHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhich MPs are standing down before the next election? Full list mappedThe key issues that will decide the electionWhen is the first UK general election TV debate?What is purdah? The strict rule that governs what politicians can and can't say"
The Telegraph,BBC election debate verdict: ‘Rishi Sunak is finally sounding like a true blue’,"['‘How can this man get into No 10?’', '‘Rishi Sunak was incessantly talking over everyone’']",Ellen Murphy,27 June 2024 at 3:00 pm·4-min read,27,June,2024,03:00:00,4,"The BBC general election debate on Wednesday saw Rishi Sunak and Keir Starmer go head to head for the last time before the country goes to the polls.In our writers’ verdict following the debate, Tim Stanley, Telegraph columnist, argued Rishi Sunak “sounded like an effective Leader of the Opposition”, while Tom Harris, former Labour MP, said “the Prime Minister yet again missed a golden opportunity.”Telegraph readers were eager to give their verdict. In a snap poll, 79 per cent of over 51,000 readers voted that Rishi Sunak came out on top.The majority of readers sided firmly with the Prime Minister, who many thought “thrashed” the Labour leader on every issue, so much so that they reconsidered their support for Reform.“Wow, what a performance by Sunak – he ran rings around Starmer,” reader Gill B. began.Although they have been “a huge critic of Sunak since he called the election,” they concluded that “Starmer is not PM material and Labour are not fit for government.”Edna Clouds was a “full bore” Reform supporter – up until the debate. She now believes that “pressure is having a real impact on the Tories.”“Rishi Sunak was impressive tonight,” Edna said, “He’s finally sounding like a true blue. He’s thrashed Keir Starmer on every single issue.”Similarly, David B. shared that he has been a loyal Conservative for 40 years and although he considered Reform, “seeing Keir Starmer tonight, I’m voting Conservative. There’s no way this bloke should be running the country.”Meanwhile, pro-Palestinian protestors outside the venue in Nottingham Trent University could be heard throughout the debate, much to readers’ dismay who thought it was “hindering the discussion meant to progress the democratic process.”Bob Davis wrote: “This was clearly the wrong venue, the protesters outside are intimidating the democratic process.“Who in their right mind would use a university as a venue for a debate? Universities are wastelands for freedom of debate.”‘How can this man get into No 10?’Readers branded Sir Keir Starmer the weaker debater of the two, and were particularly disappointed by his responses to questions on immigration and tax.Reader Cymon Barton Jones thought “Starmer showed himself tonight. Not a single answer to any questions, nothing specific, no details, no plan. How can this man get into No 10?”And Roscoe P Coltrane said: “Keir Starmer looks incredibly weak on the small boats’ crisis, I thought I saw lips quivering!“I’ve got no time for Rishi Sunak, but I think he’s undoubtedly the much stronger debater.”Likewise, Ian Dodd argued: “Keir Starmer has been exposed regarding his lack of migration policy and his tax increases. He says he runs big departments, but he did nothing about grooming gangs.”Reader A.B. reasoned: “Keir Starmer might just be a fairly quiet, principled man. What these debates illustrate to me, though, is that he doesn’t have the charismatic aura to lead and command loyalty. Factions with big characters will go after him... he’ll be overpowered.”“As a Labour supporter, thank goodness Keir Starmer didn’t do any more of these [debates],” Ed Jones said, adding: “It’s not his strength at all. Strange really, because as a lawyer you would think he could fight his corner better. Rishi Sunak is all over him.”‘Rishi Sunak was incessantly talking over everyone’Some readers criticised Rishi Sunak for repeating himself and talking over Sir Keir and the BBC’s moderator Mishal Husain during the debate.Paul Hassall suggested: “Sunak is like a parrot churning the same old rubbish every time. He just shouts people down!”In a similar vein, Richard Evans thought “Rishi Sunak was incessantly talking over everyone.” Mishal Hussain “just let him speak uninterrupted over Keir Starmer. No dignity, no manners.”And L.C. Gills believed Rishi Sunak was “all words and no action, same as always.”However, W.H. countered: “Rishi Sunak gives the impression of a man who has a clear view going forward. Keir Starmer, on the other hand, is in too many minority groups – he will always be pulled in a million directions and will never have clear convictions.”"
Yahoo News UK,The Tory ministers and 'big beasts' who could lose MP seats in the electionSeveral big names in the Conservative Party are at risk of losing their seats in the general election.,"['Grant Shapps', 'Penny Mordaunt', 'Liz Truss', 'Jacob Rees-Mogg', 'Johnny Mercer', 'Victoria Prentis', 'Alex Chalk', 'David TC Davies']",Andy Wells,Updated 20 June 2024 at 3:51 pm·5-min read,20,June,2024,03:51:00,5,"Rishi Sunak could become the first prime minister to lose his seat in a general election, according to new bombshell polling.According to the Savanta poll, which was commissioned by The Telegraph, the Conservatives are projected to win just 53 seats in the general election. Some three-quarters of the Cabinet would lose their seats in that scenario – including Sunak.Were Sunak to lose his seat in Richmond (Yorks), it would make him the first prime minister in history to lose their seat in a general election, according to the Institute for Government. Chancellor Jeremy Hunt is also facing a battle to hold on to his constituency, with the vote on a “knife edge”.Savanta spoke to around 18,000 people between 7 June and 18 June for their poll. If reflected in the election, Labour would be on course to win 516 seats, with a commanding Commons majority of 382. The Liberal Democrats would have nearly as many seats (50) as the Tories.Jeremy Hunt: My constituency is on a knife edgeHunt could be among the Conservative casualties on the night of the 4 July poll, despite his newly-created seat in Godalming and Ash currently holding a Conservative majority of more than 10,000. He is facing a battle to win the seat in Surrey, with the Liberal Democrats keen on taking a high-profile scalp.Several other Tory ‘big beasts’ also face a tight vote to hold onto their seat, according to a major poll by Ipsos.Grant ShappsDefence secretary Grant Shapps may lose his seat in the election. (Getty)Defence secretary Grant Shapps, who had been touted as a potential leader of the Conservatives after the election, is at risk of losing his Welwyn Hatfield seat, according to Ipsos. Their polling suggests a likely Labour victory, with Sir Keir Starmer’s party currently on 48%, compared to 28% for the Conservatives.Shapps won the seat in the 2019 election with a vote share of 52.6%, increasing his majority from the previous election.Penny MordauntPenny Mordaunt’s seat is at risk from Labour. (PA)Penny Mordaunt, the leader of the House of Commons, is another Tory MP whose name has been mentioned in a future leadership contest – in the event of the Tories losing the election. However, she may not even be an MP after 4 July as her Portsmouth North seat is at risk.Seen as “leaning Labour”, polling suggests Labour are on 42%, compared to the Tories on 34%. She won 61.4% of the vote in the 2019 election.Liz TrussFormer prime minister Liz Truss may not be an MP after the election. (PA)Former prime minister Liz Truss is at risk in her South West Norfolk seat. The seat is seen as a “toss up”, with Truss currently in the lead at 31%. Labour are a sitting at 27% but Reform UK are polling 30%.Allowing for margins of error and another two weeks of campaigning, the seat will be hotly contested between all three parties on 4 July.Jacob Rees-MoggJacob Rees-Mogg is on track to lose his seat at the general election. (PA)While no longer a government minister, Jacob Rees-Mogg losing his North East Somerset and Hanham seat would perhaps be one of the night’s bigger surprises. Rees-Mogg has been an outspoken critic of some of Sunak’s policies and is a regular presenter on GB News.However, the Ipsos poll has the seat, which has been newly-created for the 2024 election, is currently showing a “likely Labour” win, with the party on 47%, compared to 30% for the Conservatives.Johnny MercerPolling suggests Johnny Mercer will lose his seat to Labour at the election. (PA)Veterans’ affairs secretary Johnny Mercer is standing for the Plymouth Moor View seat, having last won the seat in 2019 with an increased vote share of 60.7%. However, a “likely” Labour win is expected, with a projected vote share of 49% on 4 July. The Tories are currently polling at 30% – half of what they won in 2019.Victoria PrentisAttorney general Victoria Prentis is currently facing being replaced by Labour in the election. (PA)A “likely” Labour victory is predicted for Banbury, a seat currently held by attorney general Victoria Prentis. The Tories are polling at 30% in the constituency, compared to 40% for Labour. Prentis is notable for being the first British MP to take a Ukrainian refugee in her house following Russia’s invasion.Alex ChalkThe Libreal Democrats are projected to take over justice secretary Alex Chalk’s seat. (Alamy)Justice secretary Alex Chalk won 48% of the vote in the Cheltenham constituency in the 2019 election. However, the seat is now leaning to being “strong Liberal Democrat”, with Sir Ed Davey’s party polling 60% of the vote. Chalk and the Conservatives are projected to win 26% of the vote, according to Ipsos.David TC DaviesDavid TC Davies is projected to lose his seat in the general election. (PA)Welsh secretary David TC Davies is facing a “likely” Labour victory on 4 July, with the party projected to win 45% of the vote, compared to 30% for the Tories. The constituency has predominately been held by the Tories, with Davies himself representing the seat since 2005.Your guide to votingHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhat voter ID can I bring to the election?Who is standing in my constituency? Full list of every candidate mappedThe manifestosWhat is a manifesto?The conservative election manifesto - in briefThe Lib Dem manifesto - in briefThe Labour manifesto - in briefThe leadersWho is Rishi Sunak? The PM battling to stay in power after election gambleWho is Keir Starmer? The toolmaker's son promising change for the UKWho is Ed Davey? Lib Dem leader attracting attention with election stuntsWho is Richard Tice? Reform’s former leader turned Farage sidekick "
Sky News,Just like England at the Euros - Sunak and Starmer's final TV debate was a draw,[],Sky News,Updated 27 June 2024 at 3:11 pm·3-min read,27,June,2024,03:11:00,3,"​​​​​​​The final TV clash of the election campaign was an ill-tempered shouting match, at least from Rishi Sunak. Sir Keir was more measured. More prime ministerial, perhaps?As he had to as the underdog, Mr Sunak went on the attack from the start until the very end and unveiled a new campaign slogan: ""Don't surrender…""He said it no fewer than 15 times during the 75-minute debate. That's once every five minutes.But just like the England-Slovenia Euros match 24 hours earlier, the result was a draw, 50%-50% exactly, according to pollsters YouGov.Election latest: PM 'behaved badly' in debate with Sir KeirAnd, some would say, that just like the England game, it was a 0-0 draw really.At the outset, the PM served notice he wanted to talk about tax, while Sir Keir wanted to talk about politicians gambling. Hardly surprising.As Mr Sunak read out prepared lines - and appeared to be looking down at notes - it was a smart ad lib from Sir Keir that won the first round of applause.Read more:Greenpeace protester climbs on Tory election campaign busWhere is Liz Truss? ""If you listened to people in the audience more you might not be so out of touch,"" he said, in a familiar Labour attack line.But the PM was strong and came out on top in exchanges on illegal migrants crossing the channel.""Don't surrender our borders to the Labour Party,"" he urged the audience in the first of many ""Don't surrender…"" appeals to voters.Then he challenged Sir Keir on illegal migrants: ""What will you do with them?"" And then came a good ad lib - or perhaps prepared line of attack - from the PM.""Are you going to sit down with the ayatollahs? Are you going to sit down with the Taliban?"" he goaded Sir Keir, winning applause this time.The host Mishal Husain had a good line too. When the Labour leader attacked Mr Sunak for saying: ""We should unite behind Liz Truss.""""You know what it's like to fall in behind the leader of your party!"" in a clear reference to Sir Keir's backing for Jeremy Corbyn, which gave him some uncomfortable moments in earlier TV clashes during the election campaign.Surprisingly, Mr Sunak didn't respond to that. On this occasion, a bit like the England football team, he missed an open goal.One of the best moments came when a member of the audience, Robert, asked a devastating question.He said Mr Sunak ""was a good chancellor but is a mediocre PM"" and ""Sir Keir's strings are being pulled by others in the Labour Party"".And then came this killer question from Robert: ""Are you two really the best we've got to be the next prime minister of our great country?""There were gasps from the audience and applause at the same time. Great question.Another good question from the audience came when Judy told how her jazz vinyl records business had lost 90% of its trade with Europe since Brexit. What could be done to get a better trading deal, she asked.Mr Sunak, however, dodged that question by talking about business rates and other UK taxes.On Brexit, it seemed, the PM was like a cracked record.He claimed Sir Keir's plans for better deals with the EU would mean more migration.But Sir Keir said Mr Sunak was the most liberal prime minister on migration. ""The numbers have gone through the roof,"" he said.The debate ended as it began, with Mr Sunak shouting over Sir Keir. It wasn't a good look.In the closing speeches, the PM hammered home the Tories' £2,000 Labour tax grab charge, yet again. And yet again he said: ""Don't surrender…""And as the debate ended there was no handshake between the pair, which is unusual for these TV clashes.At least party leaders pretend to be civilised towards each other usually.There's clearly no love lost between these two. It showed. A 50%-50% draw, said YouGov. Just like England at the Euros!"
The Telegraph,Junior doctors hold positive talks with Labour but will still strike ahead of general election,[],Michael Searles,27 June 2024 at 1:04 pm·4-min read,27,June,2024,01:04:00,4,"Junior doctors claim to have held positive talks with Labour over a 35 per cent multi-year pay deal but will still strike for five days ahead of the general election.Union leaders said they had met with Wes Streeting, the shadow health secretary, multiple times, and that his vision to restore doctors’ pay “matches” their own.Despite the optimism of striking a deal with a Labour government, junior doctors will still take to the picket line to hold Rishi Sunak “accountable” because he “needs to own his mistakes and reflect on his inaction”.British Medical Association (BMA) leaders said they had an “open dialogue” with Mr Streeting and Labour and that the party were willing to “engage in constructive and meaningful talks”.Dr Rob Laurenson, GP and co-chairman of the BMA junior doctor committee said: “[Mr Streeting] is talking about things like ‘journey, not an event’. We’re happy to have a multi-year pay deal.“He has seemingly heard that and, ‘journey not an event’, matches that. The problem with the current talks is that there’s no recognition of being able to deliver a long term plan,” he said.Ending the 20-month long dispute with junior doctors would be a significant achievement for an incoming Labour government.Previously the medics had threatened to cripple the NHS once again this winter if their 35 per cent pay demands were not met.The BMA will walk out for five days from 7am on Thursday until 7am on July 2.Dr Laurenson said Mr Streeting had also understood calls to improve rotational training, which require doctors to move around the country at short notice and has “inbuilt inefficiencies”.“Streeting is the only one who has actually picked up how much of a win in terms of efficiency savings and cost savings that could be for everyone involved,” he said.Dr Vivek Trivedi, a trainee anaesthetist and BMA co-chairman, said that “the discussions [with Labour] have always been trying to keep an open dialogue and that’s been reflected in things that he’s said publicly”.“The main thing that I’ve taken away from discussions is that there does seem like there is a willingness to try and at least engage in constructive and meaningful talks.”The leaders do not regret staging their 11th round of strikes in 15 months on the eve of the general election, with the NHS also warning of “major disruption” to services amid Britain’s hottest days of the year and a cyber attack adding “operational pressure” to London hospitals.Asked why they could not wait until a new government was formed on July 5 before striking again, Dr Laurenson said: “This is what accountability looks like. He [Mr Sunak] needs to own his mistakes, and he needs to reflect on his inaction.”Dr Trivedi added that it could have been a “mutual win” for the medics and the Prime Minister.“We were hoping that this would allow him to see how this could be a mutual win for us both. He’s been talking about trying to get down the waiting list and restoring the country,” he said. “This would have been a clear indication that those words have some substance behind it. It was an opportunity for him to deliver it for the country.”Prof Phil Banfield, the BMA chairman, said he too had met Mr Streeting and Labour officials “several times over the last two years”.“We haven’t always agreed. We’ve had disagreements. We’ve suggested things, they’ve changed their stance on various bits,” he said, adding that he expects those conversations to take place.“It’ll be a tough conversation, but actually being in the room with someone is easier because you can then talk to them about your point of view.”Mr Streeting has admitted that resolving the junior doctor strikes with a pay rise was likely to be one of the first areas that will see Labour stretch its spending beyond existing commitments.“This dispute has meant over a million operations appointments and procedures being delayed or cancelled and it has cost the taxpayer £3 billion pounds –  that is a hell of a lot of money to pay for failure,” he told The Telegraph.“So it is in our interest to cut a deal and we’re going to have to look at what we can do as far as the books allow.”He said he had made clear to the BMA that their demands for a 35 per cent pay rise were “not something that the country could afford”, but that the union had shown “a willingness to negotiate down from 35 per cent to recognise that pay restoration is a journey, not an event.”“I think we can find a deal in that space,” he said."
Sky News,"Jeremy Hunt donates £32,000 of own money to local party amid 'neck and neck' fight to keep seat",[],Sky News,Updated 27 June 2024 at 10:08 am·3-min read,27,June,2024,10:08:00,3,"Jeremy Hunt has donated a further £32,000 of his own money to his constituency party as he tries to avoid becoming the first sitting chancellor in modern British history to lose his seat.Figures from the Electoral Commission show in the first quarter of this year, Mr Hunt made three donations to the Godalming and Ash Conservatives.Election latest: Follow liveThe chancellor gave £7,794 across two separate donations on 2 January then another £24,451.30 on 8 February.The 8 February donation is the largest single donation he has made to the local association, which has received £166,457 from him in total since 2014.The vast majority of that has been cash donations, official records show, though £8,918 of it was non-cash.Under electoral rules, MPs and candidates can donate to their local constituency accounting unit if they wish.The Lib Dems said Mr Hunt is ""throwing the kitchen sink at keeping his seat"", amid warnings he could be ousted come polling day on 4 July.The Surrey constituency has been a key target seat for Sir Ed Davey's party as they aim to demolish the Conservative ""Blue Wall"" in southern England.A Liberal Democrat source told Sky News. ""The Liberal Democrats are on the up in Godalming and Ash and this marginal seat is neck and neck.""There's no doubt that Jeremy Hunt needs all the help he can get - that's why he is throwing the kitchen sink at keeping his seat.""Mr Hunt amassed a vast personal fortune in his pre-political career as an entrepreneur.He has previously defended the large donations by arguing ""it's a free country"" and that it demonstrated his ""commitment"" to the area he has represented since 2005.Speaking about the issue in March, he told Sky News: ""I put that money in mainly because during the pandemic it was not possible to do fundraising in the normal way.""I've got a brilliant team in my constituency and we do some fantastic local campaigning and I wanted that to continue despite the fact that we couldn't fundraise.""However, he admitted he has a ""tough fight"" against the Lib Dems and added ""I've never taken that for granted"".Mr Hunt is defending a notional majority of just over 10,000 in Godalming and Ash, which was previously South West Surrey before boundary changes.Polls suggest he is one of several Tory big beasts at risk of losing their seat in an election that could fundamentally redraw Britain's political landscape.Read more:PM's closest aide interviewed over election betSunak hits back at David Tennant in row over ministerWith Labour projected to win a majority as high as 200, Mr Hunt - along with cabinet colleagues like Grant Shapps and Penny Mordaunt - could all face the electoral chopping board - or a ""Portillo Moment"" as it is sometimes called.This is a reference to Michael Portillo, the Tory minister who was famously unseated as Tony Blair swept to power in 1997.It is relatively rare for cabinet ministers to lose their seats and if this happens to Mr Hunt it would be particularly embarrassing, as it would make him the first sitting chancellor in modern British history to be ousted at a general election.He has made relatively few national media appearances during the election campaign compared to other senior Tories, telling broadcasters last week that he has been ""knocking on doors for six hours every day"" and ""meeting lots of people, making the arguments"".He said: ""I'm fighting for every vote. I think that I can win the seat. But I don't take anything for granted.""The full list of candidates in Godalming and Ash is:• Graham Drage, Reform UK• Paul Follows, Liberal Democrat• Jeremy Hunt, Conservative and Unionist Party• Ruby Tucker, Green Party• James Walsh, Labour Party• Harriet Williams, Women's Equality Party."
Yahoo News UK,"Who is Rishi Sunak? PM battles to stay in power after election gambleAs the prime minister calls a snap election, here’s everything you need to know about Rishi Sunak and what he’s saying about the biggest issues in British politics","['Early life', ""Sunak's family"", 'His parents', 'His education', 'How much is he worth?', 'His religion', 'Sunak on... the NHS', 'Sunak on… immigration', 'Sunak on... the cost of living crisis', 'Sunak on... pensions']",Hannah Fearn,23 May 2024 at 7:21 pm·8-min read,23,May,2024,07:21:00,8,"Rishi Sunak has the fight of his political life ahead of him after calling a snap general election for 4 July. The polls have consistently painted a very bleak picture for the prime minister, with Labour holding on to a double-digit poll lead over his Conservatives.Recent by-election results suggest that Labour is likely to win a landslide victory – but there’s still time for the PM to turn it around.Here’s everything you need to know about Sunak and what’s he’s saying about the biggest issues in British politics right now.Early lifeSunak was born in Southampton in 1980, the eldest of three children. His Indian parents both arrived from East Africa in the 1960s. A football-mad boy whose childhood idol was Matt Le Tissier, Sunak was described by the family’s neighbours as a child with “lovely manners”.In his youngest years, the PM attended Oakmount, a local private prep school, and later Stroud School in Romsey. According to a recent biography, fellow pupil Ollie Case said: “He was someone that was talked about. The teachers would say: ‘He’s going to be prime minister'.""But, growing up in the 1980s and 90s, he also remembers experiencing racism. “My mother was obsessed with us not having accents,” Sunak has said.Rishi Sunak was football-mad as a boy growing up in Southampton. (ITV)Sunak's familySunak is married to Akshata Murty, the daughter of an Indian entrepreneur and multi-billionaire. The pair first met in 2004 at Stanford University, his future wife apparently attracted to his “honesty and integrity”.Five years later they married in a two-day Indian wedding held in Bangalore. The couple have two daughters, Krishna and Anoushka, who will turn 13 and 11 this year, both of whom are largely kept out of the public eye.Sunak attended Oakmount, a local private prep school, and later Stroud School in Romsey. (Rishi Sunak, Instagram)His parentsYashvir Sunak, Rishi’s father, was born in Kenya. He arrived in the UK to study medicine and then stayed, becoming an NHS GP. His mother, Usha, was born in Tanzania and is a pharmacist.The couple met in Britain and settled in Southampton in the 1970s. Usha is still the director and lead pharmacist at Sunak Pharmacy in Southampton.His educationAs a teenager Sunak studied at Winchester College where he was, he says, a self-confessed “geek”. According to a recent biography, the “naughtiest” thing the prime minister did during his school days “was to smuggle a hand-held television into the school so that he did not miss any key games of Euro 96”.The childhood home of Rishi Sunak in Southampton. (Getty Images, photo taken in 2022)Perhaps unsurprisingly for someone with such an unblemished record, he went on to become the school’s head boy. Sunak worked while studying, delivering medicines for his mother’s pharmacy and as a waiter at a local Indian restaurant.After school, Sunk read philosophy, politics and economics at Lincoln College, Oxford, graduating in 2001 with a first class degree. While still at university he held an internship at the Conservative Party campaign headquarters and joined the party, but went on studying before entering politics.He earned his MBA from Stanford in 2006 as a Fulbright Scholar, meaning he was selected among the most promising candidates from the UK.How much is he worth?As prime minister, Rishi Sunak earns £80,807 on top of a salary of £84,144 for being an MP. But his current income from Westminster pales in comparison to his family’s vast wealth through marriage.The Sunday Times valued the couple’s joint fortune at £730m. Murty's father is the co-founder of Infosys, an Indian tech conglomerate, in which she holds shares estimated at around £430m. Her family is also involved in a £900m business arrangement with Amazon in India, and she is a shareholder of multiple other companies.Rishi Sunak's mother is still the director and lead pharmacist at Sunak Pharmacy in Southampton.Before entering politics Sunak worked for Goldman Sachs and a series of hedge funds. He is also known to have invested in blind trusts, in which investments are made without holders knowing where the funds are located. These arrangements reportedly hold Sunak’s own multi-million-pound fortune.His religionSunak is not only the first prime minister of colour and of Indian heritage but he is also the first practising Hindu to hold the biggest job in UK politics.He has spoken of his pride in his Hindu faith, saying, “that’s how I was raised, and that’s how I am”. He said: “Having faith gives you resilience, gives you strength that is important and it provides an outlook on life which I find particularly valuable.”Sunak on... the NHSThe prime minister’s biggest challenge in office has been the crisis in the NHS - and to many people in the sector his government has been found wanting. “We have not made enough progress,” Sunak said when asked about his commitment to cut NHS waiting lists during an interview with Piers Morgan on TalkTV. Asked if that meant he had failed, the prime minister replied: “Yes, we have.""Sunak expects to see waiting lists start to reduce this spring, and blames the delays on “industrial action”, as disputes with junior doctors and consultants over pay and conditions continue. Yet Sunak himself has been blamed for holding up a deal that would prevent more walkouts.Sunak, his wife Akshata and daughters Anoushka and Krishna (second left) at Santa Monica Pier, California, on their summer holiday in 2023. (AP)Sunak on… immigrationAccording to the prime minister, illegal migration threatens to “overwhelm” Europe. In June 2023 he claimed his plan to “stop the boats” and tackle illegal immigration was working, but by August 2023 he had changed his mind: “It’s not an easy problem to fix,” he told broadcasters. “I never said we would be able to solve it overnight.”He has staked much of his reputation on the government's Rwanda Bill - his plan to deport asylum seekers to the east African country that finally became law last month, after months of legal and procedural challenges. It has paved the way for deportation flights to get off the ground within weeks.He described his policy, which he says will act as a deterrent to people traffickers, as being “the will of the people” – yet polling suggests low support for such a punitive approach.The policy, coupled with Conservative talk of limits on legal migration, shows that the government is committed to taking a hard line on the issue, despite the risk of alienating more moderate voters.The Rwanda policy is not universally popular. (YouGov)Sunak on... the cost of living crisisThe prime minister has told hard-pressed working families that they will feel some relief from the cost of living crisis as inflation continues to drop following its highs of October 2022. He described the government’s tax cuts as “meaningful” and has welcomed the dip in mortgage rates at the turn of the year.Sunak says falling inflation will have the biggest impact on family budgets “and will start to ease some of those pressures” and that he was right to focus on that figure. However, the global drop in energy prices is probably the biggest factor in easing the hit on wallets - something that the prime minister has no control over.However, the fall in inflation to 2.3% on 22 May this year – the lowest it has been in nearly three years – was likely one of the key factors in persuading Sunak to call a snap election many weeks earlier than experts had predicted.Can we expect more handouts or tax breaks to help balance family budgets? Not according to Sunak, who has warned voters that it’s time to “move on” from government support.Sunak on... pensionsThe triple-lock pensions policy is a tricky one for Sunak – especially since Labour has committed to retaining the policy. Any change to a policy that has become a hallmark of recent Conservative governments would not go down well with the 12 million pensioners it would likely impact – many of whom are lifelong Tory voters.Last November, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) said pensions should start being pegged to an average of inflation and wage growth, which would help reduce state spending over time.Sunak’s response to that was ambiguous to say the least: “We are the government that has … delivered the triple lock and it is why, right now, pensions are, depending on how you look at it, £800 or £900 bigger than they otherwise would have been.” He is yet to confirm whether it will appear in the manifesto."
The Argus,"Labour should be 'up front' about King Alfred before election, former councillor says",[],Patrick Barlow,27 June 2024 at 0:00 pm·2-min read,27,June,2024,00:00:00,2,"A former councillor has called for an announcement on the site for the new King Alfred Leisure Centre to be made before the General Election.Dawn Barnett said this would the council is “up front” with voters and people can cast their ballot while fully informed.Dawn, a councillor in Hangleton for nearly two decades, has campaigned tirelessly to protect Benfield Valley and has called for Brighton and Hove City Council not to build a new leisure centre on the green land.Now, with a decision coming in the middle of July, the 82-year-old has called for the Labour-run council’s new cabinet to bring it forward to before the General Election on July 4.Dawn BarnettCouncil leader Bella Sankey hit back at the suggestion, saying she would not “engage in silly games”.Dawn, who has campaigned to protect Benfield Valley throughout her time as a Conservative councillor and after, said: ""They [the council] need to be up front about it. If they build on Benfield Valley they are opening up to building right through to the houses.""I have fought and fought and fought to stop it being built on. At the end of the day it's some of the last bits of green land in Hove.""These days kids have nowhere to go and explore, it has all been developed on.""People use the park and take their dogs for a walk there. When my kids grew up they were lucky to have a garden but kids don't these days. It's disgusting.""The King Alfred Leisure Centre (Image: The Argus)Benfield Valley is one of the sites being considered for a new leisure centre to replace the current King Alfred on Hove seafront.Other options include redeveloping the current site.In response to the claims, council leader Bella Sankey said: “As the General Election gets closer and the failures and corruption of this Tory government become clearer, local Tories are getting desperate in their campaign tactics.“The decision on the redevelopment of the King Alfred is coming to July cabinet, following consideration of the important feedback received in the consultation.“Unlike the failed Tory government, and the local Conservatives that were roundly rejected by Brighton and Hove residents, we make proper decisions and don't engage in silly games.”"
The Telegraph,Election diary: Sunak and Starmer campaign in the Midlands in final week before polls,[],Dominic Penna,27 June 2024 at 2:24 pm·1-min read,27,June,2024,02:24:00,1,"With a week until the country goes to the polls, Rishi Sunak and Sir Keir Starmer return to the campaign trail after a heated final head-to-head televised debate.The Prime Minister will be targeting seats in the Midlands and Yorkshire that were crucial to the Tories’ triumph in 2019, taking part in a visit to a Derbyshire pottery factory and a transport site before giving a short stump in Leeds on Thursday evening.Sir Keir, the Labour leader, is also in the Midlands as he pays a visit to Staffordshire before heading to Cheshire late afternoon for a further campaign event.Read the latest election pollsMeanwhile Nigel Farage will speak in front of a crowd of around 1,000 Reform UK supporters in Sunderland at lunchtime. The port city gave significant backing to Brexit in 2016 and has benefited from Nissan ramping up production in the following years.Mr Farage will then campaign alongside Richard Tice, his predecessor and now the chairman of Reform, in Boston and Skegness, where Mr Tice hopes to unseat Tory incumbent Matt Warman.In Scotland, John Swinney will be joining one of the SNP’s candidates in Edinburgh making and serving pizza."
Yahoo News UK,"Confused by election jargon? The common words and phrases explainedCertain phrases such as the 'triple lock plus' have also become defining issues of the election, with the terms bandied about by politicians on both sides.","['Absentee ballot', 'Ballot box', 'Campaign', 'Canvassing', 'Capital gains tax', 'Child benefit', 'Coalition', 'Constituency', 'ECHR', 'Exit poll', 'First past the post', 'Hung parliament', 'Income tax threshold', 'Majority', 'Manifesto', 'Marginal seat', 'Net zero', 'Opinion poll', 'Poll', 'Postal vote', 'Proxy vote', 'Psephology', 'Polling day', 'Purdah', 'Spoiled ballot', 'Swing', 'Tax burden', 'The Equality Act', 'Triple lock', 'Triple lock plus', 'Turnout', 'VAT']",Rob Waugh,Updated 13 June 2024 at 9:43 pm·7-min read,13,June,2024,09:43:00,7,"From 'purdah' to 'first past the post', every election in the UK is surrounded by specialist jargon that can leave some voters struggling to fully understand the conversation around them.In the 2024 election, certain phrases – such as the 'triple lock plus' – have also become defining issues, with the terms bandied about by politicians on both sides.Below, we've defined some of the most widely used and confusing terms around British elections (and the 2024 election in particular).Absentee ballotIf people can’t get to a polling station on election day, they can apply for an absent vote.There are two kinds: a postal vote, where a ballot is mailed in, and a proxy vote, where someone else votes for you.At the 2019 general election, 17.2% of voters across the UK used a postal ballot and 0.6% appointed a proxy.Ballot boxThe box where people put their voting slips. The term is also sometimes used to refer to the election itself, as in ‘they could not win at the ballot box’.CampaignThe time before an election in which politicians persuade people to vote for them. In the case of the 2024 election in the UK, parliament was dissolved on the 30 May and the election will take place on 4 July.CanvassingGoing round a particular area trying to persuade people to vote for one party or the other.In UK elections, this is often done by volunteers knocking on people’s doors.Capital gains taxCapital gains tax is a tax on profit when people sell assets that have increased in value.In the 2024 election, the Conservatives have promised that landlords who sell to sitting tenants will be spared capital gains tax on the proceeds, while Labour has left the door open to raising capital gains.Child benefitChild benefit is a benefit paid to parents with children under 16 (or under 20 in approved education or training).The Conservatives have promised to increase the threshold at which high earners start to lose the benefit from £60,000 to £120,000.Sir Keir Starmer, like the Conservatives, has pledged not to raise VAT. (Photo by Stefan Rousseau/PA Images via Getty Images)CoalitionA coalition government is a government formed jointly by more than one political party (for example, by the Liberal Democrats and Conservatives in 2010).ConstituencyThe geographical area that is represented by each MP in the House of Commons.ECHRThe European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) is an international convention which protects human rights in Europe.The Conservative manifesto stopped short of promising to withdraw from the ECHR, which would have made plans such as the plan to deport migrants to Rwanda easier.Exit pollA poll conducted outside polling stations just after people have voted on election day.On election day, the results of Britain’s exit poll are published just after polls close at 10pm and tend to give a more accurate prediction of the result than previous polls produced throughout the campaign.First past the postThe first past the post system is used to elect MPs to the House of Commons.The candidate with the most votes in each constituency becomes MP, and the party with the most MPs becomes the government.This can mean that the winning party actually has a minority of votes cast: in 2019, the Conservatives had 43.6% of the vote.Hung parliamentA hung parliament is where no party has enough seats to form an overall majority. For example, both the 2010 election and 2017 elections resulted in hung parliament.In 2010, the Conservatives formed a coalition with the Liberal Democrats, while in 2017, the Conservatives formed a minority government with a 'confidence and supply' agreement with the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP).Income tax thresholdThe thresholds between the tax-free allowance, basic rate tax and higher rates of tax.Both parties have said they will continue the freeze on income tax thresholds brought in under the Conservatives, which means people pay more tax as more and more people are pushed into higher tax brackets if wages rise.MajorityA party with a majority – more than half of the seats in the House of Commons – has won the election.The number of votes by which an individual MP wins a constituency is also referred to as their majority.ManifestoPolitical parties publish manifestos before a general election, with a set of policies that the party stands for and aims to implement if elected.Manifesto pledges are not legally binding.Marginal seatA seat in which the incumbent MP won by a small majority, meaning a swing is more likely than in a so-called ‘safe seat’ where the MP had a large majority.Net zeroThe UK Government has set a goal for Britain’s emissions to reach net zero – where emission and removal of greenhouse gases reaches equilibrium – by 2050.All major parties are expected to stick to this goal, barring Reform UK.Opinion pollAn opinion poll is a research survey (usually carried out on a representative sample of the electorate) to gauge likely results in an election.Poll‘The polls’ refers to the places where people vote in an election: exit polls and opinion polls refer to two kinds of survey used to predict election results.Postal voteAn absentee vote where the vote is sent in by post.At the 2019 general election, 17.2% of voters across the UK used a postal ballot.Proxy voteA vote where a person who can’t make it to the booth appoints someone to vote for them.In the 2019 election, 0.6% of voters appointed a proxy.PsephologyPsephology is the scientific study of elections and voting and is used to predict and analyse election results.Polling dayThe day when the country places their vote: in the UK 2024 election, this is July 4.PurdahBefore British elections, the country enters purdah, officially known as the ‘pre-election period of sensitivity’.Purdah means that politicians (both local and national) and other people such as civil servants face restrictions on what they can do and announce.Ministers who remain in office can’t announce new funding, or new policies, or anything which might sway voters or make the government more popular.The idea is that public money cannot be spent on the election.Spoiled ballotA ballot paper which has been marked wrongly (for instance with a vote for more than one candidate) will not be counted.Sometimes people spoil ballots deliberately as a protest vote to show dissatisfactionSwing‘Swing’ is the change in voter support for a political party between one election and the next.It is used to analyse the performance of parties in different areas.Tax burdenThe tax burden refers to the total amount of taxes paid by a group (in this case the UK as a whole) as a proportion of total income.The tax burden is currently at its highest in 70 years according to the OECD.The Equality ActThe 2010 Equality Act protects people against discrimination in Britain.The Conservatives want to ‘tweak’ the Act so that sex-based protections only apply on the basis of someone’s biological sex.Triple lockThe triple lock is a guarantee introduced to the state pension in 2010 so it would not lose value in real terms.The guarantee means that the state pension will rise by the highest out of average earnings, inflation as measured by the consumer price index (CPI) or 2.5%.Triple lock plusThe ‘triple lock plus’ is a Conservative policy, which would see the tax-free pension allowance rise every year in line with the triple lock of average wages, inflation, or 2.5% – whichever is highest, to prevent pensioners being pulled into paying income tax.TurnoutTurnout refers to the percentage of people eligible to vote who turn out to vote on election day.In the 2019 election, for example, 67.3% of those eligible turned out to vote.VATValue added tax is added to goods and services sold by VAT-registered companies, and is the third-largest source of government income after income tax and national insurance.Both Labour and the Conservatives have pledged not to raise VAT.Keir Starmer profile: The toolmakers' son vowing to 'rebuild Britain'Rishi Sunak profile: The PM battling to stay in power of election gambleHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhich MPs are standing down before the next election? Full list mappedThe key issues that will decide the electionWhen is the first UK general election TV debate?What is purdah? The strict rule that governs what politicians can and can't say"
Glasgow Times,General Election: Anas Sarwar urges voters 'one week to get rid of Tories',[],Stewart Paterson,27 June 2024 at 1:00 pm·2-min read,27,June,2024,01:00:00,2,"ANAS Sarwar has sent a message to voters in Scotland they have one week left to “get rid of the Tories”.With seven days until the polling stations open for the General Election the Scottish Labour leader is urging people to vote Labour to ensure Keir Starmer replaces Rishi Sunak as Prime Minister.Sarwar is pushing the Labour message of a new deal for working people and a publicly owned GB Energy firm.Starmer and Labour are well ahead of the Sunak and the Conservatives in opinion polls with the party seemingly on course for a very large majority.The Scottish party leader is looking to take Labour back to having the most Scottish MPs, currently having only two Ian Murray and Michael Shanks.Polls suggest it could even take back all the Glasgow seats, that the SNP has dominated at Westminster since 2015.Sarwar said: “With only a week left of this election it is clear that only a vote for Scottish Labour can get rid of the Tories and deliver the change Scotland needs.“Scotland cannot afford any more years of Tory chaos and sleaze.“It’s time for a decade of national renewal with a Labour government with Scotland at its heart.“A Labour government will boost wages, bring down bills, deliver jobs and help save our NHS.“Scots have a choice - to wake up on the 5th of July to more Tory chaos or a decade of national renewal with Labour.”Labour said the new deal for working people will see a pay rise for 200,000 of the lowest paid people in Scotland.It claims its GB Energy plan will bring 69,000 jobs to Scotland and drive down household bills.It also argues its spending plans including closing tax loopholes will see 160,000 extra NHS appointments. "
Yahoo News UK,Who is Ed Davey? Lib Dem leader attracts attention with election stuntsEverything you need to know about the former minister who has pledged to fight for the NHS.,[],Hannah Fearn,7 June 2024 at 11:47 pm·7-min read,7,June,2024,11:47:00,7,"Ed Davey has been involved in a number of comedy stunts since the election was called. (Alamy) With the spotlight on prime minister Rishi Sunak and Labour leader Keir Starmer as they prepare to slug it out in a general election campaign, the focus had started slipping from Liberal Democrat leader Ed Davey until a series of stunts put him back in the spotlight.The former coalition government cabinet minister - who lost his seat, punished by voters for getting into bed with the Tories, but then won it back again - is sending a clear message that he should not be overlooked.He’s had a long political career and the climax may still be ahead: if polls continue to shift away from the Conservatives at the current trajectory, there’s a slim possibility that, if the election is held in October, he could end up as Leader of the Opposition.So what do we know about the man behind the third party in British politics? Hannah Fearn finds out.His early lifeEd Davey was born in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, on Christmas Day in 1965. He was the youngest of three boys, but lost his father at just four years old, and his mother followed over a decade later when he was in his mid-teens. She spent three years battling cancer, during which time he nursed his mother together with his grandmother and brother Henry.Once a keen Scout and Air Scout, he later remembers feeling “isolated” at school because of his caring responsibilities, which meant he couldn’t take part in after-school activities or sports. “The last 18 months she was bedridden and in a lot of pain. I’d spend hours on the bed, talking to her,” he said. Davey was with his mother when she died at Nottingham General Hospital, after being placed on an unsuited dementia ward.After both his parents had died, Davey was brought up by his maternal grandparents in the village of Eakring, though his grandfather died soon after. He spent much of his childhood and young adulthood close to his grandmother. “First of all, she was looking after me. Then we were looking after each other,” he said.Keir Starmer profile: The toolmakers' son vowing to 'rebuild Britain'Rishi Sunak profile: The PM battling to stay in power of election gambleHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhich MPs are standing down before the next election? Full list mappedThe key issues that will decide the electionWhen is the first UK general election TV debate?What is purdah? The strict rule that governs what politicians can and can't sayHis familyDavey married Emily Gasson, a former Liberal Democrat parliamentary candidate, in 2005. Gasson stood in four elections but failed to win a seat and is now a councillor. The pair have two children, a son and daughter.Their son, born in 2007 and now a teenager, is disabled with a neurological condition. He attended special schools but is now educated at home with a tutor - a change that Davey said led to him becoming verbal for the first time. He has spoken about his anxiety about who will care for his son when he and his wife are no longer around. “It’s the thing that worries me more than anything else in my life,” he said.Gasson was diagnosed with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis in 2012. She was well for many years following her diagnosis, but declined during lockdown and is working on recovering her physical strength.Liberal Democrats election broadcast shows Ed Davey with his son. (Liberal Democrats)His parentsHis father, John, was a solicitor and his mother, Nina, a teacher. Davey has described how he was inspired to study by his mother, who always wanted him to try hard academically and who he wanted to impress.His educationDavey attended the private Nottingham High School, the alma mater of former chancellor Kenneth Clarke. He became head boy, with Labour MP Ed Balls - who was studying in the year below - watching on. After school, he achieved a first class degree in philosophy, politics and economics at Jesus College, Oxford where he was junior common room president. After becoming an economics research for the Liberal Democrats he returned to study, reading for a master’s degree in economics at Birkbeck College, London.Ed Davey, pictured with his family. (Liberal Democrats)Why is he a sir?For three years, the Lib Dem leader was a member of the cabinet during the period of Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government, holding the post of secretary of state for energy and climate change from 2012 to 2015. He was knighted in the 2016 New Year’s Honours for “political and public services”.Davey on... the cost of living crisisDavey has repeatedly attacked the government for failing to curb rapid inflation and the devastating effect it is having on household budgets. He called the Conservative Party “so out of touch they might as well be living on another planet”, and said he warned Jeremy Hunt “people are desperate for real help… but all the chancellor could offer is empty words and unfair tax hikes”. In particular, he has urged more action on food price inflation, which analysis from his own party found had risen 37 per cent in one year for the average weekly supermarket trip. He has promised to end energy hikes and abandoned his plan to add 1p to income tax to save the NHS because ordinary voters can no longer afford it.Davey on... the NHSThe Liberal Democrats have made the NHS a cornerstone of their policy platform for the last five years. In Davey’s words: “Voting Conservative is bad for your health.” He promises to reverse cuts to GP numbers and guarantee a doctor’s appointment when you need one, improve access to NHS dentistry and save lives by tackling ambulance call out delays. Davey blames the care crisis for deepening the problems of the health service and says his party would spend £5bn a year on a “care package” to ensure patients are discharged from hospital more quickly, freeing up bed space. However, there is little detail on how this would be financed without raising taxes on the wealthiest - which Davey has promised not to do in his push to poach disillusioned Tory voters.British Leader of the Liberal Democrats party Ed Davey arrives at the BBC Broadcasting House, for his appearance on 'Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg', in London, Britain, April 28, 2024. REUTERS/Maja SmiejkowskaDavey on... immigrationThe Lib Dem leader has been a long-standing advocate for refugee rights and critic of the government’s immigration policy. He has called for Conservative plans to deport failed asylum seekers to Rwanda a “cynical distraction” from the partygate crisis and the money would be better spent on measures to tackle the cost of living crisis. He added: “They’ve provided no evidence to suggest that this new policy will stop illegal smuggling, they’re not cracking down on the organised crime gangs, which is what you need to do.” He has called for a new right to work for refugees and asylum seekers, and major reform of the Home Office which he says is no longer up to the job. After the end of the coalition government, Davey has said his party “was wrong” to go along with the introduction of a minimum income standard for immigrants. He later described the policy as “nasty and unfair”.Davey on... the Post Office scandalDespite the Horizon scandal that led to the wrongful prosecution of more than 700 subpostmasters crossing the tenure of more than a dozen business secretaries, Ed Davey has recently taken the heat for failing to investigate the issue while he was in the job.It has emerged that Davey initially rejected a request to meet justice campaigner Alan Bates, and later accepted it only on the advice that it would be good for his PR. He has recently apologised for not acting earlier, admitting that he is sorry that he “did not see through Post Office lies” about the fault in the Horizon programme."
The Independent,Ofcom warned it must change outdated reporting rules to counter election day fake news,[],David Maddox,27 June 2024 at 3:27 pm·2-min read,27,June,2024,03:27:00,2,"Fears that fake news could influence the outcome of the general election have led to calls for an immediate change in rules on reporting on polling day.BCS, the Chartered Institute for IT - the professional body for computing - has called for immediate reform of regulations preventing mainstream broadcast media from rebutting fake news on election day.Almost two thirds of tech experts believe broadcasters including the BBC, Sky, ITV and GB News, should be allowed to rebut misinformation on polling day, according to research conducted by BCS.It comes amid growing concerns over the amount of fake news found on social media and online platforms which could influence results.Sunak and Starmer debated on the BBC last night but reporting restrictions prevent any discussion on polling day (BBC via Getty Images)In the past Russian-bots have been accused of influencing elections around the world including the Brexit and Scottish independence referendums.According to the survey of BCS members, 62 per cent of IT professionals believe the ban on general election coverage on polling day should include an exemption to allow mainstream media to counter online misinformation.The current regulations, set by Ofcom, state that discussion and analysis of election issues must finish when the polling stations open at 7am, and not resume until they close at 10pm.This also includes that whilst people are voting, broadcasters must not publish the results of any opinion polls.In the same survey of 1200 technologists, 65 per cent of respondents expressed concern that deepfakes will have a significant influence on the result of the upcoming UK General Election.Adam Leon Smith, BCS Fellow and International AI standards expert said: “As we approach the General Election, it is essential that broadcasters are more active in the fight against misinformation and disinformation, especially when it comes to those misleading the electorate.“By enabling reputable media outlets to fact-check and correct misleading content in real time, they can provide the public with accurate information, thereby fostering a more informed electorate and upholding democratic values.”"
The Guardian,Starmer accuses Sunak of using trans issues as ‘political football’,[],Nadeem Badshah,27 June 2024 at 6:04 am·2-min read,27,June,2024,06:04:00,2,"Keir Starmer accused Rishi Sunak of using transgender issues “as a political football to divide people” during their head-to-head debate on Wednesday.The pair clashed in response to a question about whether they would protect women’s rights to single-sex spaces, regardless of whether people have a gender recognition certificate.The prime minister said he would “unequivocally” change the law “so that the old Equalities Act recognises that sex means biological sex”.Starmer said he would protect women’s spaces but would not amend legislation in order to do so.The Labour leader told the BBC debate at Nottingham Trent University that Sunak should read the current laws and argued the protections are there. “Don’t just use this as a political football to divide people,” he said.Starmer added: “What I will also say is that I do recognise that there are a small number of people who are born into a gender that they don’t identify with, and I will treat them, as I treat all human beings, with dignity and respect.“I’ll tell you why, because if you don’t, we end up with the prime minister of the United Kingdom standing in parliament making an anti-trans joke in front of the mother of a murdered trans teenager.”Sunak replied: “That’s not what I did. I was pointing out that you’ve changed your mind on this question multiple times.”Related: Sunak and Starmer wrap up their final debate of despair | John CraceStarmer was referencing Sunak being accused of mocking trans people in the Commons as the mother of the murdered trans teenager Brianna Ghey visited parliament in February.The prime minister said at the time the Labour leader was incapable of “defining a woman” and that it was among a number of issues on which he had performed a U-turn. Esther Ghey was in the public gallery four days after her 16-year-old daughter’s killers were jailed for life.There was no winner in the BBC prime ministerial debate, according to a YouGov snap poll with 50% saying Sunak performed best and 50% Starmer."
Yahoo News UK,"Who will win the next general election? Latest polls and oddsFive new polls have been published, all of which show Labour holding a large lead over the Conservatives.","['No major changes show Labour on course for large victory', 'Tories could slump to lowest number of seats', 'What are the latest odds?', 'What went wrong for the Tories?']",James Cheng-Morris and  James Hockaday,Updated 26 June 2024 at 10:24 pm·6-min read,26,June,2024,10:24:00,6,"With little over a week to go until the general election, five separate opinion polls continue to show a large Labour lead over the Conservatives.Prime minister Rishi Sunak will have been hoping to make a dent in Labour’s position but the campaign has been far from perfect for the Tories. It is now looking ever-more likely that Sir Keir Starmer will be prime minister by next Friday.Nigel Farage may yet have a good election night as Reform UK are currently in third place in the polls. The polling for the party has slipped following the controversy over Farage’s comments about the war in Ukraine but the party is still some five percentage points ahead of the Lib Dems.Yahoo News UK summaries the positions of the parties the five polls.No major changes show Labour on course for large victoryA poll by Savanta puts Labour on 42% – 21 points ahead of the Tories, who are on 21%. Ipsos also puts Labour on 42%, compared to 19% for the Tories, while JL Partners give similar results, with Labour on 41% and the Tories on 25%.A Verian poll shows Labour on 38%, with the Tories on 21%, while Survation show Labour on 41%, compared to a historic low of 18% for the Tories.An average of opinion polls from February to June this year. (PA)An average of all polls with survey work completed during the seven days to 26 June puts Labour on 41%, 21 points ahead of the Conservatives on 20%, followed by Reform on 16%, the Lib Dems on 11% and the Greens on 6% – unchanged on the figures for the previous week.On 22 May, the day Sunak called the election, the seven-day averages stood at Labour 45%, Conservatives 23%, Reform 11%, Lib Dems 9% and Greens 6%.Tories could slump to lowest number of seatsEarlier this month, three major polls showed the Tories were on course for a historic defeat, with one projection showing the party potentially slumping to the lowest number of seats since the party was formed.Using the multilevel regression with poststratification (MRP) technique, which enables projections to be made at constituency level, YouGov's polling for Sky News projected Labour being on course to achieve a 200-seat majority. The poll suggested Labour would secure 425 seats, the Tories 108, the Liberal Democrats 67, SNP 20, Reform UK five, Plaid Cymru four and the Green Party two.The YouGov poll for Sky News.A More In Common UK poll for the News Agents podcast showed Labour projecting to finish on 406 seats, with the Conservatives on 155.Meanwhile, polling by Savanta and Electoral Calculus for the Telegraph, showed Sunak could become the first sitting prime minister to lose his seat of Richmond and Northallerton to Labour. It put Labour on 516 seats, with the Tories on just 53.What are the latest odds?As of 26 June, Oddschecker – a website which compares odds across different bookmakers – had Labour at 1/41 to win the most seats. To put that in context, this is seen as so likely that a £10 bet would return just £10.24.The Conservatives are 80/1 to win the most seats, a scenario seen as so unlikely that a £10 punt would return £810.A Conservative majority government is also seen as so unlikely (125/1) that Oddschecker sees a Reform UK government as more likely (100/1).What went wrong for the Tories?YouGov's voting intention tracker between January 2020 and June 2024. (YouGov)So, why have the polls changed so dramatically? It's worth looking back on an extremely eventful four-and-a-half years in UK politics.According to YouGov's voting intention tracker (see chart, above), Tory support peaked at 53%, with Labour on 32%, in April 2020, months after the party's stunning success in the 2019 general election and Boris Johnson's pledge to “get Brexit done”. That month also saw Starmer take over as Labour leader from Jeremy Corbyn.This was also amid a spirit of national unity following the onset of the COVID pandemic which nearly killed Johnson himself. The then-PM had been released from hospital five days before this particular survey was taken.Boris Johnson delivers his final speech as prime minister outside 10 Downing Street in September 2022. (AFP via Getty Images)Over the rest of the year, there was a downturn in support amid chaos over COVID rules, with the Tories falling as low as 35% in November 2020, compared to Labour on 40%.However, the UK’s successful COVID vaccination programme provided a pathway out of lockdown and with it, improved poll ratings. Tory support peaked at 41% in June 2021, with Labour at 30%.In October that year, there was a sense Johnson was untouchable. At the Tory party conference, the BBC's Laura Kuenssberg remarked how the PM was ""in total command of his party, and politically dominant in the country"".But this fell apart quickly with the Partygate scandal, which emerged in November that year. Time and again, reports emerged of government and Tory staff – including Johnson – having taken part in lockdown-era social gatherings when their own COVID rules had prohibited them.By January 2022, Tory support had plummeted to 28%, with Labour on 38%. Johnson struggled on, but never recovered and a wave of ministerial resignations forced him to resign in July that year.The UK had three separate prime ministers – Boris Johnson, Liz Truss and Rishi Sunak – between 6 September and 24 October, 2022. (Getty Images)His successor, Liz Truss, then embarked on arguably the most disastrous prime ministerial reign in history, characterised by the catastrophic ""mini-budget"", containing £45bn of unfunded tax cuts, which prompted an economic crisis. Like Johnson, she lost the confidence of Tory MPs – and voters – and had to resign.Her 49-day spell as PM was the shortest in history, with Tory support plummeting to 19% (with Labour on 56%) the day after she announced her resignation in October 2022.Rishi Sunak, who had lost to Truss in the previous month's Tory leadership election, took over. However, as the above YouGov chart indicates, he has failed to cut through with voters. Tory support was at 23% two days after he assumed office, with the most recent survey, carried out on Thursday, showing support is now lower than under Truss at 18%.In short, the polls and odds, not to mention other factors such as notable by-election victories for Starmer's Labour, are pointing to a Labour government next week.Your guide to votingHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhat voter ID can I bring to the election?Who is standing in my constituency? Full list of every candidate mappedThe manifestosWhat is a manifesto?The Conservative election manifesto - in briefThe Lib Dem manifesto - in briefThe Labour manifesto - in briefThe leadersWho is Rishi Sunak? The PM battling to stay in power after election gambleWho is Keir Starmer? The toolmaker's son promising change for the UKWho is Ed Davey? Lib Dem leader attracting attention with election stuntsWho is Richard Tice? Reform’s former leader turned Farage sidekick "
The Guardian,Labour ‘not putting up a fight’ against Farage in Clacton,[],Aletha Adu Political correspondent,27 June 2024 at 2:45 am·4-min read,27,June,2024,02:45:00,4,"Labour has been accused of “not putting up a fight” against Nigel Farage in Clacton after the party’s candidate was instructed to leave the constituency after “distracting” from Keir Starmer’s campaign.Jovan Owusu-Nepaul, 27, who works for Labour’s equalities team, was installed by the party last month to contest the seat, weeks before Farage changed his mind and decided to stand in the Essex constituency.Owusu-Nepaul has since been “seconded” to the West Midlands, while the local campaign in Clacton said that it had been banned from printing leaflets, blocked from using campaigning software and had access to the campaign’s social media overriden, with posts deleted on X.Related: ‘He’s for English people’: Farage’s populist pitch gains traction in ClactonLabour regards Clacton as an unwinnable seat, with the party gaining just 15% of the vote in 2019, when the Tories won a 24,702 majority.Members of Clacton’s constituency Labour party (CLP) had been expecting a “well planned but low energy” social media campaign.However, Owusu-Nepaul attracted attention on social media after he was photographed bumping into the Reform UK leader at an opening of a new food truck in Frinton earlier this month, with pictures going viral.A campaign source said Labour headquarters had been angry with the traction Owusu-Nepaul was getting. “At one point [Jovan] was getting more retweets than Keir Starmer. The officials were furious with him and said he was distracting [from] Starmer’s campaign,” they said.The Guardian reported last week that dozens of Labour candidates have been blocked from accessing the party’s canvassing systems, which help them drum up support from voters, because they were deemed not to be campaigning enough in target seats.Tracey Lewis, a Labour activist from Clacton, quit the CLP after Owusu-Nepaul was sent to campaign in the West Midlands.She said: “I’m a lifelong Labour supporter and will continue to be even though I’ve quit my place on the CLP, but if they can’t put a fight up against Nigel Farage, then who are they fighting for?”Chris Bee, another member of the local party, said: “Our candidate gets some real traction and with a week-and-a-bit to go they pull him out and will not allow him back into the constituency to fight for a place in this area’s most important election in a generation. This is absolutely disgusting on every level.”In a letter to Labour’s general secretary, David Evans, seen by the Guardian, Martin Suker, Owusu-Nepaul’s election agent said: “Reform UK stands for everything we the Labour party stand against … and I’m struggling to come to terms that it appears the party doesn’t even want to be seen to be putting up a fight.“Jovan was told [by an official] to never come back to Clacton, and yesterday, was instructed to move to the West Midlands region.“I’m concerned there will be follow-on questions: members, supporters and more worryingly donators will be both angry and upset that it appears like the party that they have a great hope in isn’t doing anything to show a battle front to what many see as a catastrophe not only for Clacton, but for the parliamentary system entirely.”Suker said the local party had requests for new leaflets turned down and access to the canvassing system removed. “Now I have no candidate to put in front of the people for them to see us at least trying to ‘Save Clacton’,” he added. “This could be very damaging to the party’s image.”Labour has been urging candidates to campaign more in target seats and diverting activists away from the Liberal Democrats’ priority seats to those where it stands a better chance of winning against the Tories. Clacton activists had been twinned with nearby Colchester.A Labour party spokesperson said: “We are working hard to deliver as many Labour MPs as possible in the general election and our campaigners are bringing our message of change to people across the country.”"
Yahoo News UK,"3 electoral maps that show how disastrous the election could be for the ToriesWith new modelling predicting a Labour victory even bigger than Tony Blair's 1997 landslide, the outlook for Rishi Sunak is not looking good.",['Which Tory ministers are at risk of losing their seats?'],James Cheng-Morris and  James Hockaday,Updated 5 June 2024 at 8:34 pm·4-min read,5,June,2024,08:34:00,4,"The outlook was already looking bleak for the Conservative Party when Rishi Sunak called the general election following months of dismal approval ratings that showed little sign of improving.At a campaign event last week, Sunak said he didn't think defeat to Labour was a ""foregone conclusion"", suggesting his main election rival Sir Keir Starmer was taking the British electorate ""for granted"".However, a general election projection released on Monday will have added to the Tories' woes – predicting the biggest win for Labour in the party's history, surpassing even that of Tony Blair's 1997 landslide.The analysis, carried out by YouGov for Sky News, used a relatively new polling technique called Multi-level Regression and Post-stratification (MRP), which is regarded to have had a good track record and can provide detailed predictions at a constituency level basis. The scale of Sunak's problems is demonstrated by the interactive maps below, showing just how much ground the Tories are expected to lose compared to their 2019 victory.Click on the arrows in the top left to switch between the two maps. Check your own constituency to see if it is projected to change handsThe first map above shows the seats won in the 2019 general election, when Boris Johnson led the party to a stunning majority.The wall of Tory blue on the map, compared to the spots of Labour red, is a demonstration of just how far Labour, then led by Jeremy Corbyn, had fallen in public standing. The result was Labour's worst electoral performance since 1935.If you toggle to the second map, the projection by YouGov (which was based on polling carried out between 24 May - 1 June) suggests that Starmer's party is on track to win 422 seats, with the Tories down to just 140.Such a result would be the Conservative Party's worst performance at a general election since 1906. If YouGov's predictions are accurate, Labour winning a 194-seat majority would be the highest number since Conservative Stanley Baldwin won a majority of 208 in 1924.The model suggests the Conservatives could be set for near wipeout across many areas of the country, including London, the North East, the North West, and Wales.It also projects that the Scottish National Party would lose more than half their seats, with Labour returning as the largest party north of the border, and the Liberal Democrats reclaiming its place as the third party of British politics – winning 48 seats.The new figures, released yesterday, came as Reform UK co-founder Nigel Farage announced that he would be returning as the populist party's leader and would stand for election in Clacton-on-Sea, Essex. Even before Farage's latest bid, pollsters told Yahoo News that Reform UK could pose a serious threat to the Tories by splitting the vote and potentially handing even more seats to Labour.The YouGov projection follows a similar poll by modelling site Electoral Calculus, which came out on 31 May. The polling also compares the 2019 result with Electoral Calculus' projection.It predicts that Labour is on course to win an even bigger majority of 319 seats - with Starmer's party picking up 485 MPs and the Tories way behind with 66. The modelling shows the Lib Dems getting very close to the Conservative Party, with 59 seats.While Electoral Calculus' polling, based on opinion polls from 8 May to 20 May, returns a different set of projections to YouGov's, both clearly indicate the scale of the problem facing Sunak.The Electoral Calculus model has predicted Sir Keir Starmer's Labour will win a massive majority. (Getty Images)Which Tory ministers are at risk of losing their seats?According to YouGov's polls this week, 12 out of 26 cabinet members running for re-election could lose their seats on 4 July.""These are some of the biggest names in our politics,"" deputy political editor Sam Coates said as he presented the findings on Sky News. ""Every single one of these, right now, is projected on course to lose at the general election.""Those ministers are:Jeremy Hunt, chancellor: Predicted to lose Godalming and Ash seat to the Liberal Democrats by 15 pointsGrant Shapps, defence secretary: Predicted to lose Welwyn Hatfield to Labour by 18 pointsPenny Mordaunt, Commons leader: Predicted to lose Portsmouth North to Labour by five pointsMark Harper, transport secretary: Predicted to lose Forest of Dean to Labour by four pointsAlex Chalk, justice secretary: Predicted to lose Cheltenham by 31 points to the Liberal Democrats by 31 pointsMel Stride, work and pensions secretary: Predicted to lose Central Devon to Labour by one pointJonny Mercer, defence minister: Predicted to lose Plymouth Moor View to Labour by 11 pointsEsther McVey, minister without portfolio: Predicted to lose Tatton to Labour by one pointGillian Keegan, education secretary: Predicted to lose Chichester to the Lib Dems by five pointsSimon Hart, chief whip: Predicted to lose Caerfyrddin to Labour by nine pointsDavid T C Davies, Welsh secretary: Predicted to lose Monmouthshire to Labour by 11 pointsVictoria Prentis, attorney general: Predicted to lose Banbury to Labour by six pointsKeir Starmer profile: The toolmakers' son vowing to 'rebuild Britain'Rishi Sunak profile: The PM battling to stay in power of election gambleHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhich MPs are standing down before the next election? Full list mappedThe key issues that will decide the electionWhen is the first UK general election TV debate?What is purdah? The strict rule that governs what politicians can and can't say"
Yahoo News UK,"Three important UK election issues, explainedRishi Sunak said his leadership is needed in 'uncertain' times. Keir Starmer said the country needs to be 'rebuilt'. So what issues do voters care about most?","['The economy', 'Health', 'Immigration and asylum']",James Cheng-Morris,Updated 28 May 2024 at 11:11 pm·5-min read,28,May,2024,11:11:00,5,"After months of speculation, Rishi Sunak confirmed the general election will be held on 4 July.The prime minister said Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer could not be trusted to lead the country through “uncertain” times. He made the economy and combating global security the key elements of his pitch to the nation as he announced the election date.In response, Starmer told voters: “Together we can stop the chaos, we can turn the page, we can start to rebuild Britain.”But amid this “uncertainty” and need to “rebuild”, what do the voters consider the key issues?This chart, produced using YouGov polling over the course of this parliament, offers an insight in the issues voters care most about and how that has ebbed and flowed over time.Compared to when Boris Johnson's Tories won the December 2019 poll, the economy, immigration, defence and tax have grown in importance in the eyes of the electorate. This has come amid the cost of living crisis; small boats crossing the English Channel; the onset of the Ukraine war and wider global instability; and the highest tax burden in 70 years.Housing has also become a bigger concern, with the Renters Reform Bill - in which the government pledged to scrap no-fault evictions - having been paused after Sunak called the election.Meanwhile, the last general election was fought - and won by the Tories - on a single issue: Brexit. Yet the chart shows a clear downturn in its relevance among voters, particularly after a trade deal was agreed with the EU in December 2020.This next chart, meanwhile, highlights what voters have considered the top issues over the past year. By a wide margin, the top three are the economy, health and immigration and asylum.Here, Yahoo News UK breaks down what is behind these issues and how they have ebbed and flowed in importance among voters since the last election in 2019.The economyThe unprecedented lockdown called by Boris Johnson in March 2020 meant the public’s attention shifted to the economy, as demonstrated by the huge spike in the chart above. The then-chancellor Rishi Sunak was forced to implement a £70bn furlough scheme, lasting 18 months, to protect people’s jobs.There was a second almighty economic shock - and rise in public concern - in February 2022 following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. This caused a further spike in an already turbulent wholesale energy market, driving up costs for suppliers and ultimately customers.Average energy bills eventually reached £2,500 a year (and would have exceeded £4,000 had the government not intervened). This was double the £1,278 consumers were paying before the war and by the time this election takes place, people will still be paying much more than this: £1,568.Energy prices were also a key driver in inflation reaching 11.1% - a 41-year high - by October 2022, though it has since fallen to 2.3%, which is near the Bank of England’s 2.0% target.The third economic shock of this parliament - and most damaging for the Tories - was in October 2022 when Liz Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng's disastrous “mini budget”, containing £45bn of unfunded tax cuts, prompted an economic crisis. It led to soaring interest rates, and to this day homeowners who are remortgaging are facing significantly higher bills.HealthHealth, like the economy, is another issue which clearly correlated with the beginning of the pandemic. The above chart shows an enormous spike in public concern when COVID cases started to multiply in March 2020, ultimately leading to the nationwide lockdown as the NHS faced collapse.Cases fell that summer, but spikes in the chart can be seen once infections rose again and fresh nationwide lockdowns were imposed in October 2020 and January 2021. By March 2022, likely as concerns over the Omicron variant faded, there was much less concern about health.In January last year, there was a brief spike as the NHS in England experienced the biggest industrial action in its history, with tens of thousands of nurses and ambulance staff walking out simultaneously.As for the state of play going into the election, NHS waiting lists remain higher than they were when Sunak vowed to cut them last year. According to the latest figures, an estimated 7.54 million treatments were waiting to be carried out at the end of March, relating to 6.29 million patients.Immigration and asylumSince the last election, the immigration and asylum narrative has largely revolved around one issue: small boats crossing the English Channel.The numbers have risen in most of the intervening years: there were 1,843 crossings in 2019, 8,466 in 2020, 28,526 in 2021, 45,774 in 2022 and 29,437 last year. This year, the number has already passed the 10,000 mark.The regular sharp spikes in the above chart demonstrate how frequently crossings have been in the news, including some occasions when hundreds of migrants have made the dangerous journey in a single day.But it also reflects how the government has made this part of its own agenda. It was Boris Johnson’s government which first announced plans to deport migrants to Rwanda in April 2022. That policy was picked up by Rishi Sunak when he became prime minister in October that year, with Sunak since repeating his pledge to “stop the boats”.But after calling the election, Sunak admitted this week that flights would not take off before the country goes to the polls.Read moreFive important laws that could be dropped due to Sunak's snap election (Yahoo News UK)OPINION - Rishi Sunak has been in last-ditch campaign mode for so long — a General Election is logical (Evening Standard)Door open for Boris Johnson to campaign for Tories, Rishi Sunak signals (PA Media)"
