Source,Title,Headings,author,Published,Publish_Day,Publish_Month,Publish_Year,Publish_Time,Read_Time,Article
The Guardian,Sodden Sunak to Daredevil Davey: the most bizarre TV moments of the election campaign,"['‘Wheeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee’', '‘He just hung up on me’', '‘Famously … Sky TV’']",Scott Bryan,3 July 2024 at 8:49 am·5-min read,3,July,2024,08:49:00,5,"The election began with Rishi Sunak in the pouring rain as Labour’s 1997 anthem, Things Can Only Get Better by D:Ream, blared from a nearby speaker. We should have seen it coming, considering that earlier that afternoon the same speaker had blasted out The Imperial March from Star Wars.It has only got weirder from there. Here are the most surreal moments from the campaign (and yes, Ed Davey features a lot).‘Wheeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee’In the past few weeks, the Liberal Democrats have: gone paddleboarding; played Jenga; careered down a water slide; completed a water assault course; ridden a rubber ring tied to a boat; built sandcastles; raced wheelbarrows; pruned a garden; drummed on a yoga ball; tried Hula Hooping, water aerobics and Zumba; washed an ambulance; played Frisbee; and appeared on a catwalk after getting a makeover on This Morning. By the time we saw Davey bungee jumping live on the news, hardly anyone raised an eyebrow.That said, this camera angle during a report on Davey attending a first aid course probably did:What’s Ed Davey up to now? pic.twitter.com/AEoyTqYVxM— Swed (@Swedleypops) June 26, 2024Early on in the campaign, I joked that the Lib Dem manifesto was going to be launched at Chessington World of Adventures. In the end, it was unveiled just before a visit to Thorpe Park, with Sam Coates from Sky News providing analysis of the party’s chances while on the rollercoaster Swarm.Davey was also interviewed by LBC’s Charlotte Lynch about rejoining the single market while spinning on a teacup ride. “We’ve got great policies for the economy, including the cost of LIVVVVVVINNG,” Davey yelled. At one point, the cameras lost sight of Davey spinning and accidentally zoomed in on a random bunch of people instead.Ed Davey has just done an interview about the UK rejoining the single market whilst on the teacups pic.twitter.com/VEiK86pkkf— Scott Bryan (@scottygb) June 10, 2024Lynch and Coates weren’t the only ones who interviewed Davey in surreal locations. Sky News’s political correspondent Matthew Thompson interviewed him on a paddleboard from an adjacent kayak. It soon became evident why interviewing politicians on open water has not taken off as an art form: Thompson narrowly avoided dropping his microphone into the water, before accidentally moving between Davey and the camera because he couldn’t steer and interview at the same time.It appears interviewing the leader of the Lib Dems whilst in a kayak is rather hard pic.twitter.com/BVwjL9YeIZ— Scott Bryan (@scottygb) May 28, 2024Sky News viewers then witnessed serious analysis of that interview by Thompson, back in the battlebus, split-screened with unflattering shots of Davey clambering out of the water in his wetsuit.‘He just hung up on me’With Conservative polling going from bad to worse to “how bad?!”, rolling news channels managed to capture Tory chaos in real time.As Sky News’s Coates and Sophy Ridge reported a poll that suggested senior cabinet members, including Grant Shapps, would lose their seats, Coates received a call on air from Shapps himself.💀 Grant Shapps phoned Sam Coates live on sky news then hung up after being asked for his response to the MRP poll showing him losing his seat. pic.twitter.com/SxsIDe7adU— Marcus Carslaw (@marcuscarslaw1) June 3, 2024The defence secretary had not realised that Coates was on television at the time. “Hello, Grant Shapps, you’re live on Sky News,” said an excitable Coates, holding out his phone as if he were a candidate during a task on The Apprentice. “Have you just seen that you’re about to lose your seat?”*click*“He just hung up on me,” Coates followed. This was soon spoofed as a Who Wants To Be a Millionaire? skit, with Coates as the contestant and Shapps the phone-a-friend.‘Famously … Sky TV’You can usually sum up an election campaign in a few soundbites. For Sunak, it was leaving D-day commemorations early to tell ITV News that he “famously” went without Sky TV as a child. For Labour, it was the deputy leader, Angela Rayner, excitedly exclaiming on Sky News that she has her own battlebus, adding: “It’s got a fridge.”.@BethRigby: “You’ve been benched at bit, but you’re back.”@AngelaRayner: “I’m back and I’m powering up the battle bus.” “An Angie Rayner battle bus is about to be unleashed?” “I have got an Angie Rayner battle bus. Yes. You’re gonna love it. It’s got a fridge.”  😂 pic.twitter.com/yZA0cvSFUW— Damon Evans (@damocrat) May 30, 2024Also, did you know that Keir Starmer’s father was a toolmaker? You didn’t?! It has come up so many times that it was spoofed as a flag at Glastonbury and the audience jeered when he tried to mention it casually on Sky News. Sometimes catchphrases come out wrong, though, such as when Starmer dropped the clanger “the DNA runs through my DNA” on an ITV debate with Sunak.Other memorable moments? Penny Mordaunt channelling Maddie from The Traitors by pointing at the other candidates one by one and saying “higher taxes, higher taxes, higher taxes”. Or Steve Baker reeling off “Skydiving, motorcycling, fast catamaran sailing”, when asked by Victoria Derbyshire on Newsnight what he would do if he lost the election.But the weirdest thing said in the run-up to the election came from the foreign secretary, David Cameron, who channelled Gino d’Acampo when asked by Sky News’s Kay Burley what he planned to do if the Conservatives lost. “If my mother had wheels she’d be a bicycle,” he said.There were also plenty of surreal moments from the political interviewers. Nick Robinson tried to corner the Green party’s co-leader Adrian Ramsay on climate policy by asking whether it was going to increase the cost of burgers, then illustrated the question by taking out a cold burger and wafting it in front of him.The hero of the internet, however, was Sky News’s political editor, Beth Rigby, who yelled: “CAN YOU WIN IT?” at passing ministers outside No 10 while presenting. We then learned through her podcast that Rigby pronounces Haribo sweets “Ha-REE-bows”. It’s official: that is what we must call them now."
Yahoo News UK,Who is Ed Davey? The Lib Dem leader whose life has been marked by adversity,"['His early life', 'His family', 'His parents', 'His education', 'Why is he a Sir?']",Hannah Fearn,Updated 1 July 2024 at 11:04 am·3-min read,1,July,2024,11:04:00,3,"The youngest of three boys, Sir Ed Davey had a childhood marked by adversity. His mother died when he was a teenager and his father died when he was just four.As an adult, Davey now cares for his son, who is disabled with a neurological condition.So what do we know about the man who leads the third party in British politics?His early lifeEd Davey was born in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, on Christmas Day in 1965. He was the youngest of three boys, but lost his father at just four years old and then his mother when he was in his mid-teens. She had spent three years battling cancer, during which time he nursed his mother together with his grandmother and brother Henry.Once a keen Scout and Air Scout, he later remembers feeling “isolated” at school because of his caring responsibilities, which meant he couldn’t take part in after-school activities or sports. “The last 18 months she was bedridden and in a lot of pain. I’d spend hours on the bed, talking to her,” he said. Davey was with his mother when she died at Nottingham General Hospital, after being placed on an unsuited dementia ward.After both his parents had died, Davey was brought up by his maternal grandparents in the village of Eakring, though his grandfather died soon after. He spent much of his childhood and young adulthood close to his grandmother. “First of all, she was looking after me. Then we were looking after each other,” he said.His familyDavey married Emily Gasson, a former Liberal Democrat parliamentary candidate who unsuccessfully stood in four elections and is now a councillor, in 2005 and the pair have two children, a son and daughter.Their son, John, born in 2007 and now a teenager, is disabled with a neurological condition. He has attended special schools but is now educated at home with a tutor – a change that Davey said led to him becoming verbal for the first time. He has spoken about his anxiety about who will care for his son when he and his wife are no longer around. “It’s the thing that worries me more than anything else in my life,” Davey said.Gasson was diagnosed with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis in 2012. She was well for many years following her diagnosis, but declined during lockdown and is working on recovering her physical strength.His parentsEd Davey, pictured with his family. (Liberal Democrats)His father, John, was a solicitor and his mother, Nina, a teacher. Davey has described how he was inspired to study by his mother, who always wanted him to try hard academically and who he wanted to impress.His educationDavey attended the private Nottingham High School, the alma mater of former chancellor Kenneth Clarke. He became head boy, with Labour MP Ed Balls – who was studying in the year below – watching on.After school, he achieved a first class degree in philosophy, politics and economics at Jesus College, Oxford where he was junior common room president. After becoming an economics researcher for the Liberal Democrats he returned to study, reading for a master’s degree in economics at Birkbeck College, London.Ed Davey as Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change alongside the then leader of the Lib Dems, Nick Clegg, and Jo Swinson, pictured during the coalition government in 2015. (Getty)Why is he a Sir?For three years, the Lib Dem leader was a member of the cabinet in the Tory-Lib Dem coalition government, holding the post of secretary of state for energy and climate change from 2012 to 2015. He was knighted in the 2016 New Year’s Honours for “political and public services”."
Yahoo News UK,"Confused by election jargon? The common words and phrases explainedCertain phrases such as the 'triple lock plus' have also become defining issues of the election, with the terms bandied about by politicians on both sides.","['Absentee ballot', 'Ballot box', 'Campaign', 'Canvassing', 'Capital gains tax', 'Child benefit', 'Coalition', 'Constituency', 'ECHR', 'Exit poll', 'First past the post', 'Hung parliament', 'Income tax threshold', 'Majority', 'Manifesto', 'Marginal seat', 'Net zero', 'Opinion poll', 'Poll', 'Postal vote', 'Proxy vote', 'Psephology', 'Polling day', 'Purdah', 'Spoiled ballot', 'Swing', 'Tax burden', 'The Equality Act', 'Triple lock', 'Triple lock plus', 'Turnout', 'VAT']",Rob Waugh,Updated 13 June 2024 at 9:43 am·7-min read,13,June,2024,09:43:00,7,"From 'purdah' to 'first past the post', every election in the UK is surrounded by specialist jargon that can leave some voters struggling to fully understand the conversation around them.In the 2024 election, certain phrases – such as the 'triple lock plus' – have also become defining issues, with the terms bandied about by politicians on both sides.Below, we've defined some of the most widely used and confusing terms around British elections (and the 2024 election in particular).Absentee ballotIf people can’t get to a polling station on election day, they can apply for an absent vote.There are two kinds: a postal vote, where a ballot is mailed in, and a proxy vote, where someone else votes for you.At the 2019 general election, 17.2% of voters across the UK used a postal ballot and 0.6% appointed a proxy.Ballot boxThe box where people put their voting slips. The term is also sometimes used to refer to the election itself, as in ‘they could not win at the ballot box’.CampaignThe time before an election in which politicians persuade people to vote for them. In the case of the 2024 election in the UK, parliament was dissolved on the 30 May and the election will take place on 4 July.CanvassingGoing round a particular area trying to persuade people to vote for one party or the other.In UK elections, this is often done by volunteers knocking on people’s doors.Capital gains taxCapital gains tax is a tax on profit when people sell assets that have increased in value.In the 2024 election, the Conservatives have promised that landlords who sell to sitting tenants will be spared capital gains tax on the proceeds, while Labour has left the door open to raising capital gains.Child benefitChild benefit is a benefit paid to parents with children under 16 (or under 20 in approved education or training).The Conservatives have promised to increase the threshold at which high earners start to lose the benefit from £60,000 to £120,000.Sir Keir Starmer, like the Conservatives, has pledged not to raise VAT. (Photo by Stefan Rousseau/PA Images via Getty Images)CoalitionA coalition government is a government formed jointly by more than one political party (for example, by the Liberal Democrats and Conservatives in 2010).ConstituencyThe geographical area that is represented by each MP in the House of Commons.ECHRThe European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) is an international convention which protects human rights in Europe.The Conservative manifesto stopped short of promising to withdraw from the ECHR, which would have made plans such as the plan to deport migrants to Rwanda easier.Exit pollA poll conducted outside polling stations just after people have voted on election day.On election day, the results of Britain’s exit poll are published just after polls close at 10pm and tend to give a more accurate prediction of the result than previous polls produced throughout the campaign.First past the postThe first past the post system is used to elect MPs to the House of Commons.The candidate with the most votes in each constituency becomes MP, and the party with the most MPs becomes the government.This can mean that the winning party actually has a minority of votes cast: in 2019, the Conservatives had 43.6% of the vote.Hung parliamentA hung parliament is where no party has enough seats to form an overall majority. For example, both the 2010 election and 2017 elections resulted in hung parliament.In 2010, the Conservatives formed a coalition with the Liberal Democrats, while in 2017, the Conservatives formed a minority government with a 'confidence and supply' agreement with the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP).Income tax thresholdThe thresholds between the tax-free allowance, basic rate tax and higher rates of tax.Both parties have said they will continue the freeze on income tax thresholds brought in under the Conservatives, which means people pay more tax as more and more people are pushed into higher tax brackets if wages rise.MajorityA party with a majority – more than half of the seats in the House of Commons – has won the election.The number of votes by which an individual MP wins a constituency is also referred to as their majority.ManifestoPolitical parties publish manifestos before a general election, with a set of policies that the party stands for and aims to implement if elected.Manifesto pledges are not legally binding.Marginal seatA seat in which the incumbent MP won by a small majority, meaning a swing is more likely than in a so-called ‘safe seat’ where the MP had a large majority.Net zeroThe UK Government has set a goal for Britain’s emissions to reach net zero – where emission and removal of greenhouse gases reaches equilibrium – by 2050.All major parties are expected to stick to this goal, barring Reform UK.Opinion pollAn opinion poll is a research survey (usually carried out on a representative sample of the electorate) to gauge likely results in an election.Poll‘The polls’ refers to the places where people vote in an election: exit polls and opinion polls refer to two kinds of survey used to predict election results.Postal voteAn absentee vote where the vote is sent in by post.At the 2019 general election, 17.2% of voters across the UK used a postal ballot.Proxy voteA vote where a person who can’t make it to the booth appoints someone to vote for them.In the 2019 election, 0.6% of voters appointed a proxy.PsephologyPsephology is the scientific study of elections and voting and is used to predict and analyse election results.Polling dayThe day when the country places their vote: in the UK 2024 election, this is July 4.PurdahBefore British elections, the country enters purdah, officially known as the ‘pre-election period of sensitivity’.Purdah means that politicians (both local and national) and other people such as civil servants face restrictions on what they can do and announce.Ministers who remain in office can’t announce new funding, or new policies, or anything which might sway voters or make the government more popular.The idea is that public money cannot be spent on the election.Spoiled ballotA ballot paper which has been marked wrongly (for instance with a vote for more than one candidate) will not be counted.Sometimes people spoil ballots deliberately as a protest vote to show dissatisfactionSwing‘Swing’ is the change in voter support for a political party between one election and the next.It is used to analyse the performance of parties in different areas.Tax burdenThe tax burden refers to the total amount of taxes paid by a group (in this case the UK as a whole) as a proportion of total income.The tax burden is currently at its highest in 70 years according to the OECD.The Equality ActThe 2010 Equality Act protects people against discrimination in Britain.The Conservatives want to ‘tweak’ the Act so that sex-based protections only apply on the basis of someone’s biological sex.Triple lockThe triple lock is a guarantee introduced to the state pension in 2010 so it would not lose value in real terms.The guarantee means that the state pension will rise by the highest out of average earnings, inflation as measured by the consumer price index (CPI) or 2.5%.Triple lock plusThe ‘triple lock plus’ is a Conservative policy, which would see the tax-free pension allowance rise every year in line with the triple lock of average wages, inflation, or 2.5% – whichever is highest, to prevent pensioners being pulled into paying income tax.TurnoutTurnout refers to the percentage of people eligible to vote who turn out to vote on election day.In the 2019 election, for example, 67.3% of those eligible turned out to vote.VATValue added tax is added to goods and services sold by VAT-registered companies, and is the third-largest source of government income after income tax and national insurance.Both Labour and the Conservatives have pledged not to raise VAT.Keir Starmer profile: The toolmakers' son vowing to 'rebuild Britain'Rishi Sunak profile: The PM battling to stay in power of election gambleHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhich MPs are standing down before the next election? Full list mappedThe key issues that will decide the electionWhen is the first UK general election TV debate?What is purdah? The strict rule that governs what politicians can and can't say"
The Independent,Sad dogs and fake TV broadcasts dominate political ads as parties launch last-minute election blitz,[],Andrew Griffin,3 July 2024 at 11:35 am·3-min read,3,July,2024,11:35:00,3,"Sad dogs and cats and fake TV broadcasts are among the ads being pushed to the public as the UK’s election campaign draws to an end.Ahead of the election, many had speculated that social media – including TikTok, which has grown dramatically since the last election – could have an outsized role in campaigning. In the event, the campaign appears to have focused largely on traditional media, and during the campaign the Conservatives appeared to pull their online paid-for marketing almost entirely.As election day approaches, however, the two main parties have seen a huge increase in their spending on online marketing. Both the Labour and Conservative parties have significantly increased the amount they are spending in recent days – though the increase is more dramatic for the Tories, which had spent considerably less than Labour and even Reform in late June.The Conservatives’ last-minute campaign blitz appears largely to be focused on one message: the slogan “don’t surrender your family’s future to Keir Starmer”. But those ads are presented in a variety of different ways, with pictures seemingly aimed at evoking emotional reactions in those that see them.They include pictures of sad dogs, including one that appears to be carrying an empty food bowl amid a warning about family finances. Another includes a picture of a sad cat, presumably for the same reason, though none of the ads makes any specific claims about animals.(Conservative Party/Meta)One of the videos that avoids that slogan is one that is mocked up to look like a news broadcast from 2026, and suggests that Mr Starmer will “stay in power for decades” because he plans to give votes to 16 year olds. Who Targets Me, an organisation that tracks online political advertising, call the ad “pretty extraordinary” and noted that “most experts think votes at 16 will have limited impact”.Another Tory ad warns users not to risk a “Keir Starmer supermajority”, and is specifically focused on certain key constituencies. Those appear to be focused on what were previously Conservative safe seats – amid warnings that many once reliable constituencies may now be on a knife-edge and could lead to a near-wipeout for the Conservatives.After a relatively quiet online campaign, those ads were launched in the last couple of days, as the election period drew to a close.Labour has also significantly stepped up its campaigning, though less dramatically. Its ads are much more various, including different videos and a range of slogans.The Conservatives appeared to have focused largely on Meta platforms Facebook and Instagram, and away from Google, which offers ads on its search as well as other platforms such as YouTube. The only ad published by the Tories on Google platforms since mid-June is a YouTube ad specifically focused on Lewis Cocking, its candidate for Broxbourne.Labour, however, have run a much more substantial campaign on Google. That has included buying advertising on Google searches that look to encourage users to read its manifesto and include slogans such as “it’s time for change”.TikTok does not permit political advertising on its platforms. Both the Conservatives and Labour have continued to post on their official accounts as the election has approached, though Labour has done so considerably more.Nigel Farage may be the winner on that platform, however. Through the election period, his views have attracted the most views – with Labour in second."
Yahoo News UK,The Tory ministers and 'big beasts' who could lose MP seats in the electionSeveral big names in the Conservative Party are at risk of losing their seats in the general election.,"['Grant Shapps', 'Penny Mordaunt', 'Liz Truss', 'Jacob Rees-Mogg', 'Johnny Mercer', 'Victoria Prentis', 'Alex Chalk', 'David TC Davies']",Andy Wells,Updated 20 June 2024 at 0:51 am·5-min read,20,June,2024,00:51:00,5,"Rishi Sunak could become the first prime minister to lose his seat in a general election, according to new bombshell polling.According to the Savanta poll, which was commissioned by The Telegraph, the Conservatives are projected to win just 53 seats in the general election. Some three-quarters of the Cabinet would lose their seats in that scenario – including Sunak.Were Sunak to lose his seat in Richmond (Yorks), it would make him the first prime minister in history to lose their seat in a general election, according to the Institute for Government. Chancellor Jeremy Hunt is also facing a battle to hold on to his constituency, with the vote on a “knife edge”.Savanta spoke to around 18,000 people between 7 June and 18 June for their poll. If reflected in the election, Labour would be on course to win 516 seats, with a commanding Commons majority of 382. The Liberal Democrats would have nearly as many seats (50) as the Tories.Jeremy Hunt: My constituency is on a knife edgeHunt could be among the Conservative casualties on the night of the 4 July poll, despite his newly-created seat in Godalming and Ash currently holding a Conservative majority of more than 10,000. He is facing a battle to win the seat in Surrey, with the Liberal Democrats keen on taking a high-profile scalp.Several other Tory ‘big beasts’ also face a tight vote to hold onto their seat, according to a major poll by Ipsos.Grant ShappsDefence secretary Grant Shapps may lose his seat in the election. (Getty)Defence secretary Grant Shapps, who had been touted as a potential leader of the Conservatives after the election, is at risk of losing his Welwyn Hatfield seat, according to Ipsos. Their polling suggests a likely Labour victory, with Sir Keir Starmer’s party currently on 48%, compared to 28% for the Conservatives.Shapps won the seat in the 2019 election with a vote share of 52.6%, increasing his majority from the previous election.Penny MordauntPenny Mordaunt’s seat is at risk from Labour. (PA)Penny Mordaunt, the leader of the House of Commons, is another Tory MP whose name has been mentioned in a future leadership contest – in the event of the Tories losing the election. However, she may not even be an MP after 4 July as her Portsmouth North seat is at risk.Seen as “leaning Labour”, polling suggests Labour are on 42%, compared to the Tories on 34%. She won 61.4% of the vote in the 2019 election.Liz TrussFormer prime minister Liz Truss may not be an MP after the election. (PA)Former prime minister Liz Truss is at risk in her South West Norfolk seat. The seat is seen as a “toss up”, with Truss currently in the lead at 31%. Labour are a sitting at 27% but Reform UK are polling 30%.Allowing for margins of error and another two weeks of campaigning, the seat will be hotly contested between all three parties on 4 July.Jacob Rees-MoggJacob Rees-Mogg is on track to lose his seat at the general election. (PA)While no longer a government minister, Jacob Rees-Mogg losing his North East Somerset and Hanham seat would perhaps be one of the night’s bigger surprises. Rees-Mogg has been an outspoken critic of some of Sunak’s policies and is a regular presenter on GB News.However, the Ipsos poll has the seat, which has been newly-created for the 2024 election, is currently showing a “likely Labour” win, with the party on 47%, compared to 30% for the Conservatives.Johnny MercerPolling suggests Johnny Mercer will lose his seat to Labour at the election. (PA)Veterans’ affairs secretary Johnny Mercer is standing for the Plymouth Moor View seat, having last won the seat in 2019 with an increased vote share of 60.7%. However, a “likely” Labour win is expected, with a projected vote share of 49% on 4 July. The Tories are currently polling at 30% – half of what they won in 2019.Victoria PrentisAttorney general Victoria Prentis is currently facing being replaced by Labour in the election. (PA)A “likely” Labour victory is predicted for Banbury, a seat currently held by attorney general Victoria Prentis. The Tories are polling at 30% in the constituency, compared to 40% for Labour. Prentis is notable for being the first British MP to take a Ukrainian refugee in her house following Russia’s invasion.Alex ChalkThe Libreal Democrats are projected to take over justice secretary Alex Chalk’s seat. (Alamy)Justice secretary Alex Chalk won 48% of the vote in the Cheltenham constituency in the 2019 election. However, the seat is now leaning to being “strong Liberal Democrat”, with Sir Ed Davey’s party polling 60% of the vote. Chalk and the Conservatives are projected to win 26% of the vote, according to Ipsos.David TC DaviesDavid TC Davies is projected to lose his seat in the general election. (PA)Welsh secretary David TC Davies is facing a “likely” Labour victory on 4 July, with the party projected to win 45% of the vote, compared to 30% for the Tories. The constituency has predominately been held by the Tories, with Davies himself representing the seat since 2005.Your guide to votingHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhat voter ID can I bring to the election?Who is standing in my constituency? Full list of every candidate mappedThe manifestosWhat is a manifesto?The conservative election manifesto - in briefThe Lib Dem manifesto - in briefThe Labour manifesto - in briefThe leadersWho is Rishi Sunak? The PM battling to stay in power after election gambleWho is Keir Starmer? The toolmaker's son promising change for the UKWho is Ed Davey? Lib Dem leader attracting attention with election stuntsWho is Richard Tice? Reform’s former leader turned Farage sidekick "
HuffPost UK,Sunak Downplays Loyal Minister's Admission Labour Could Secure 'Largest Landslide Majority' Ever Seen,[],Kate Nicholson,3 July 2024 at 11:43 am·3-min read,3,July,2024,11:43:00,3,"PM Rishi Sunak downplayed his loyal Jonathan Brady - PA Images via Getty ImagesRishi Sunak has dismissed his own minister’s prediction that Labour are “highly likely” to get “the largest majority that this country has ever seen”.Work and pensions secretary, Mel Stride, has been particularly loyal to the beleaguered PM throughout his disastrous campaign – making his remarks to the media this morning even more of a blow to Sunak.Stride told BBC Radio 4′s Today programme that “unless the polls are very wrong”, he believes Labour are on a path to landslide.He said: “I totally accept that where the polls are at the moment means that tomorrow is likely to see the largest Labour landslide majority, the largest majority that this country has ever seen, much bigger than 1997, bigger even than the national government in 1931.“What therefore matters now is what kind of opposition do we have, what kind of ability to scrutinise government is there within parliament.”Stride was speaking shortly after a Survation poll of 30,000 people predicted Keir Starmer would take a majority of 484 seats in the election – larger even than the landslide Tony Blair secured in 1997.Asked if is admitting the Tories have lost, he said: “I have accepted where the polls are at the moment – and it seems highly unlikely they are very very wrong as they are consistently in the same place and have been for some time.”However, Sunak told ITV’s This Morning that Stride was not “quite saying” the Tories were not going to win.Sticking to the Tory tactic of trying to scare voters into backing them, the PM said: “What Mel was doing was warning of what a very large Labour majority, unchecked, would mean for people.”Sunak said that he is still “fighting hard for every vote”, and claimed to have seen analysis showing “just 130,000 people can make the difference in this election”.He said: “So, everyone watching who thinks, ‘oh, this is all a foregone conclusion’, it’s not.”However, The Guardian has reported that the PM is significantly less confident with members of his inner circle.He is allegedly worrying that he could become the first sitting leader of the country to lose his Yorkshire seat in Richmond and Northallerton.Sunak won comfortably with a majority of more than 27,000 and 63% of the vote.And losing a seat while serving in cabinet – never mind in Downing Street – is very rare.Only 12 serving cabinet ministers have lost their seats since 1974, according to the Institute for Government.But, Sunak could be in good company if he is ousted this week, as a long list of Tory big beasts could be facing the chop, including ex-PM Liz Truss and defence secretary Grant Shapps.The PM has previously said he would stay on and serve in parliament for a full five years even if he led his party into defeat this week.Related...Cabinet Minister Who Bet On Election Date Did Nothing Wrong, Says Mel Stride'Was He Just Not Bothered?': Trevor Phillips Slams Sunak Over D-Day Snub In Angry Clash With Mel StrideKay Burley Leaves Mel Stride Squirming Over The Tories' £13,000 Of Tax Rises Since 2019"
Yahoo News UK,"Who is Rishi Sunak? PM battles to stay in power after election gambleAs the prime minister calls a snap election, here’s everything you need to know about Rishi Sunak and what he’s saying about the biggest issues in British politics","['Early life', ""Sunak's family"", 'His parents', 'His education', 'How much is he worth?', 'His religion', 'Sunak on... the NHS', 'Sunak on… immigration', 'Sunak on... the cost of living crisis', 'Sunak on... pensions']",Hannah Fearn,23 May 2024 at 7:21 am·8-min read,23,May,2024,07:21:00,8,"Rishi Sunak has the fight of his political life ahead of him after calling a snap general election for 4 July. The polls have consistently painted a very bleak picture for the prime minister, with Labour holding on to a double-digit poll lead over his Conservatives.Recent by-election results suggest that Labour is likely to win a landslide victory – but there’s still time for the PM to turn it around.Here’s everything you need to know about Sunak and what’s he’s saying about the biggest issues in British politics right now.Early lifeSunak was born in Southampton in 1980, the eldest of three children. His Indian parents both arrived from East Africa in the 1960s. A football-mad boy whose childhood idol was Matt Le Tissier, Sunak was described by the family’s neighbours as a child with “lovely manners”.In his youngest years, the PM attended Oakmount, a local private prep school, and later Stroud School in Romsey. According to a recent biography, fellow pupil Ollie Case said: “He was someone that was talked about. The teachers would say: ‘He’s going to be prime minister'.""But, growing up in the 1980s and 90s, he also remembers experiencing racism. “My mother was obsessed with us not having accents,” Sunak has said.Rishi Sunak was football-mad as a boy growing up in Southampton. (ITV)Sunak's familySunak is married to Akshata Murty, the daughter of an Indian entrepreneur and multi-billionaire. The pair first met in 2004 at Stanford University, his future wife apparently attracted to his “honesty and integrity”.Five years later they married in a two-day Indian wedding held in Bangalore. The couple have two daughters, Krishna and Anoushka, who will turn 13 and 11 this year, both of whom are largely kept out of the public eye.Sunak attended Oakmount, a local private prep school, and later Stroud School in Romsey. (Rishi Sunak, Instagram)His parentsYashvir Sunak, Rishi’s father, was born in Kenya. He arrived in the UK to study medicine and then stayed, becoming an NHS GP. His mother, Usha, was born in Tanzania and is a pharmacist.The couple met in Britain and settled in Southampton in the 1970s. Usha is still the director and lead pharmacist at Sunak Pharmacy in Southampton.His educationAs a teenager Sunak studied at Winchester College where he was, he says, a self-confessed “geek”. According to a recent biography, the “naughtiest” thing the prime minister did during his school days “was to smuggle a hand-held television into the school so that he did not miss any key games of Euro 96”.The childhood home of Rishi Sunak in Southampton. (Getty Images, photo taken in 2022)Perhaps unsurprisingly for someone with such an unblemished record, he went on to become the school’s head boy. Sunak worked while studying, delivering medicines for his mother’s pharmacy and as a waiter at a local Indian restaurant.After school, Sunk read philosophy, politics and economics at Lincoln College, Oxford, graduating in 2001 with a first class degree. While still at university he held an internship at the Conservative Party campaign headquarters and joined the party, but went on studying before entering politics.He earned his MBA from Stanford in 2006 as a Fulbright Scholar, meaning he was selected among the most promising candidates from the UK.How much is he worth?As prime minister, Rishi Sunak earns £80,807 on top of a salary of £84,144 for being an MP. But his current income from Westminster pales in comparison to his family’s vast wealth through marriage.The Sunday Times valued the couple’s joint fortune at £730m. Murty's father is the co-founder of Infosys, an Indian tech conglomerate, in which she holds shares estimated at around £430m. Her family is also involved in a £900m business arrangement with Amazon in India, and she is a shareholder of multiple other companies.Rishi Sunak's mother is still the director and lead pharmacist at Sunak Pharmacy in Southampton.Before entering politics Sunak worked for Goldman Sachs and a series of hedge funds. He is also known to have invested in blind trusts, in which investments are made without holders knowing where the funds are located. These arrangements reportedly hold Sunak’s own multi-million-pound fortune.His religionSunak is not only the first prime minister of colour and of Indian heritage but he is also the first practising Hindu to hold the biggest job in UK politics.He has spoken of his pride in his Hindu faith, saying, “that’s how I was raised, and that’s how I am”. He said: “Having faith gives you resilience, gives you strength that is important and it provides an outlook on life which I find particularly valuable.”Sunak on... the NHSThe prime minister’s biggest challenge in office has been the crisis in the NHS - and to many people in the sector his government has been found wanting. “We have not made enough progress,” Sunak said when asked about his commitment to cut NHS waiting lists during an interview with Piers Morgan on TalkTV. Asked if that meant he had failed, the prime minister replied: “Yes, we have.""Sunak expects to see waiting lists start to reduce this spring, and blames the delays on “industrial action”, as disputes with junior doctors and consultants over pay and conditions continue. Yet Sunak himself has been blamed for holding up a deal that would prevent more walkouts.Sunak, his wife Akshata and daughters Anoushka and Krishna (second left) at Santa Monica Pier, California, on their summer holiday in 2023. (AP)Sunak on… immigrationAccording to the prime minister, illegal migration threatens to “overwhelm” Europe. In June 2023 he claimed his plan to “stop the boats” and tackle illegal immigration was working, but by August 2023 he had changed his mind: “It’s not an easy problem to fix,” he told broadcasters. “I never said we would be able to solve it overnight.”He has staked much of his reputation on the government's Rwanda Bill - his plan to deport asylum seekers to the east African country that finally became law last month, after months of legal and procedural challenges. It has paved the way for deportation flights to get off the ground within weeks.He described his policy, which he says will act as a deterrent to people traffickers, as being “the will of the people” – yet polling suggests low support for such a punitive approach.The policy, coupled with Conservative talk of limits on legal migration, shows that the government is committed to taking a hard line on the issue, despite the risk of alienating more moderate voters.The Rwanda policy is not universally popular. (YouGov)Sunak on... the cost of living crisisThe prime minister has told hard-pressed working families that they will feel some relief from the cost of living crisis as inflation continues to drop following its highs of October 2022. He described the government’s tax cuts as “meaningful” and has welcomed the dip in mortgage rates at the turn of the year.Sunak says falling inflation will have the biggest impact on family budgets “and will start to ease some of those pressures” and that he was right to focus on that figure. However, the global drop in energy prices is probably the biggest factor in easing the hit on wallets - something that the prime minister has no control over.However, the fall in inflation to 2.3% on 22 May this year – the lowest it has been in nearly three years – was likely one of the key factors in persuading Sunak to call a snap election many weeks earlier than experts had predicted.Can we expect more handouts or tax breaks to help balance family budgets? Not according to Sunak, who has warned voters that it’s time to “move on” from government support.Sunak on... pensionsThe triple-lock pensions policy is a tricky one for Sunak – especially since Labour has committed to retaining the policy. Any change to a policy that has become a hallmark of recent Conservative governments would not go down well with the 12 million pensioners it would likely impact – many of whom are lifelong Tory voters.Last November, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) said pensions should start being pegged to an average of inflation and wage growth, which would help reduce state spending over time.Sunak’s response to that was ambiguous to say the least: “We are the government that has … delivered the triple lock and it is why, right now, pensions are, depending on how you look at it, £800 or £900 bigger than they otherwise would have been.” He is yet to confirm whether it will appear in the manifesto."
The Independent,The Tory big beasts set to lose seats at election after shock poll,"['Jeremy Hunt', 'Grant Shapps', 'Gillian Keegan', 'Rishi Sunak', 'Penny Mordaunt', 'Mark Harper', 'Johnny Mercer', 'Alex Chalk', 'Michelle Donelan', 'Michael Tomlinson', 'David T C Davies', 'Steve Baker', 'Mel Stride', 'Simon Hart', 'Richard Holden']",Alexander Butler,3 July 2024 at 10:50 am·7-min read,3,July,2024,10:50:00,7,"A number of top Tory ministers are set to lose their seats in the upcoming general election as the Conservative’s faltering campaign grinds on, according to a new shock poll.In devastating news for prime minister Rishi Sunak, YouGov’s poll has predicted 14 Tory big beasts are set to lose their seats to Labour, the Liberal Democrats, Reform UK and Plaid Cymru.The Conservatives would drop to just 108 seats, losing 257 of the seats they won in 2019, according to YouGov’s most recent projection. Labour would win a huge majority of 425 seats, up by 223.Follow live updates hereAmong those set to be outsted are Jeremy Hunt, Penny Mordaunt, Mel Stride, Alex Chalk, Mark Harper, Grant Shapps and Gillian Keegan.Separately, Mr Sunak is rumoured to confided to members of his inner circle that he is fearful of losing his Yorkshire constituency at the general election.Here, The Independent takes a closer look at the Tory candidates set to lose their seats.Chancellor of the Exchequer Jeremy Hunt is set to lose his seat under a new prediction by polling company YouGov (PA Wire)Jeremy HuntJeremy Hunt is a long-serving Tory grandee, having served in multiple senior roles across government, including Foreign Secretary, Health Secretary and his current post as Chancellor of the Exchequer.He will be standing in a new constituency this year – Godalming and Ash – after his seat in South-West Surrey, which he has held since 2005, is set to be abolished in the recent boundary changes.He has a 10,720 majority but is set to lose the seat to the Liberal Democrats under the new YouGov poll published on Wednesday 19 June.Grant ShappsGrant Shapps is the MP for Welwyn Hatfield, taking up his first government position as a housing minister under David Cameron’s leadership.Since then, Mr Shapps has served in several senior roles across government, including as transport secretary under Boris Johnson, home secretary under Liz Truss, energy secretary under Rishi Sunak and now secretary of state for defence.He has a 10,773 majority and is set to lose his seat to Labour in the general election on 4 July, the new poll found.Grant Shapps is set to lose his Welwyn Hatfield seat to Labour, according to a new YouGov poll (PA Wire)Gillian KeeganGillian Keegan entered parliament in 2017, and has served as Education Secretary since 2022, having held a number of junior ministerial posts before that.She has a 19,622 majority in her seat of Chichester but is vulnerable to the Liberal Democrats, according to the shock poll.Gillian Keegan is vulnerable to the Liberal Democrats, according to the new YouGov poll (Getty Images)Rishi SunakSeparately to the YouGov poll, Rishi Sunak has confided to members of his inner circle that he is fearful of losing his Yorkshire constituency at the general election, according to reports.The prime minister, who would be the first sitting leader of the country to lose his seat, told confidants before a Conservative rally on Tuesday that he thought the vote in Richmond and Northallerton was too close to call.Prime minister Rishi Sunak has reportedly confided to his inner circle he fears losing his North Yorkshire seat on Thursday (PA Wire)Penny MordauntThe leader of the house, Penny Mordaunt, has been a popular figure in the Conservative party over the last few years, having stood for the leadership twice in 2023.Ms Mordaunt held several senior government positions under Theresa May’s leadership, including Defence Secretary and International Development Secretary.Ms Mordaunt is now on track to lose her seat to Labour in the constituency of Portsmouth North, where she has served as the MP since 2010, according to the poll.Mordaunt is on track to lose her seat to Labour in the constituency of Portsmouth NorthMark HarperMark Harper was elected in 2005 in the constituency of Forest of Dean. He has served as Transport Secretary since 2022 and previously worked as Chief Whip.Under the new YouGov Poll, Mr Harper is vulnerable to Labour. He currently has a 15,869 majority in his Gloucestershire seat.Transport Secretary Mark Harper is set to lose his Gloucestershire seat to Labour, according to a new poll (PA Wire)Johnny MercerJohnny Mercer has served as MP for Plymouth Moor View since 2010 and has attended cabinet as Minister for Veteran Affairs since 2019.He is set to lose his seat to Labour, with the Reform party predicted to nibble away at the Conservative majority, taking around 11 per cent of the total vote share.Johnny Mercer is vulnerable to Labour in his Plymouth seat, according to the new poll (Getty)Alex ChalkAlex Chalk won the seat of Cheltenham from the Lib Dems back in 2015, and has been viewed as a rising star in the party over the past few years.Mr Chalk has long been at risk due to his wafer thin majority of just under 1000 votes, which he is now set to lose to the Lib Dems at the next election, according to the new poll.Alex Chalk is set to lose his seat of Cheltenham at the general election on 4 July (Getty Images)Michelle DonelanMichelle Donelan has been Member of Parliament for Chippenham in Wiltshire since 2015, where she has a 11,288 majority.She was first appointed Secretary of State for Science, Innovation and Technology on 7 February 2023. Under the new poll, she is predicted to lose her seat to the Liberal Democrats.Michelle Donelan, Secretary of State for Science, Innovation and Technology, is set to lose her seat to the Liberal Democrats (PA Wire)Michael TomlinsonMicheal Tomlinson has been a Member of Parliament for Mid Dorset and North Poole since the 2015 general election.He was appointed Minister of State at the Home Office on 7 December 2023, and worked as the Illegal Migration Minister. He is also set to lose his seat to the Liberal Democrats.Micheal Tomlinson’s Mid Dorest and North Poole seat is leaning towards the Lib Dems, a YouGov poll found (Getty Images)David T C DaviesMr Davies has served as Secretary of State for Wales since 2022, having previously served in junior ministerial roles and as the Chair for the Welsh Affairs Select Committee.He became the MP for Monmouth back in 2005, but is set to stand in the new seat of Monmouthshire, as his previous seat will be abolished under the boundary changes. However, Mr Davies is set to lose his seat to Labour.David TC Davies looks as if he will lose his Monmouth seat to Labour in the 4 July election (PA Archive)Steve BakerSteve Baker was appointed Minister of State at the Northern Ireland Office on 7 September 2022. He was elected as Conservative MP for Wycombe in 2010.He was previously Parliamentary Under Secretary of State at the Department for Exiting the European Union from June 2017 to 9 July 2018.Under the new poll, Mr Baker is set to lose his seat, which he is campaigning for while on holiday on Greece, to Labour.Steve Baker, who said he would be campaigning for his seat while on holiday on Greece, is set to lose to Labour (Getty)Mel StrideMel Stride was appointed Secretary of State for Work and Pensions on 25 October 2022. He was elected the Conservative MP for Central Devon in 2010.He was previously Lord President of the Council and Leader of the House of Commons from 23 May 2019 to 24 July 2019, and Financial Secretary to the Treasury and Paymaster General from June 2017 to May 2019.According to YouGov’s shock poll, he will lose his seat to Labour in the 4 July general election.Work and Pensions Secretary Mel Stride could lose his seat to Labour in the upcoming general election (PA Wire)Simon HartThe Government’s chief whip Simon Hart could lose his seat to Plaid Cymru. YouGov’s previous poll predicted he would lose it to Labour.Mr Hart has served in ministerial roles under both Boris Johnson and Rishi Sunak, having assumed office in 2010.The Government’s chief whip Simon Hart could lose his seat to Plaid Cymru, YouGov’s shock poll found (AFP via Getty Images)Richard HoldenRichard Holden was appointed Minister without Portfolio in the Cabinet Office on 13 November 2023. He was elected as the MP for North West Durham in 2019 and serves as the Tory chairman.The YouGov poll has predicted a toss-up between Reform and Labour in Basildon and Billericay, which means he could lose the contest for parliament."
Yahoo News UK,Who is Keir Starmer? Son of a toolmaker who grew up to become a 'Sir'What you need to know about the personal life of the man who wants to be the UK’s next prime minister,"['His early life', 'His family', 'His parents', 'His education', 'Why is he a Sir?']",Hannah Fearn,Updated 1 July 2024 at 7:47 am·4-min read,1,July,2024,07:47:00,4,"The son of a toolmaker and the first of his family to go to university, Sir Keir Starmer is the most working class Labour Party leader in a generation.Yet when focus groups are asked what they think his favourite drink is, they guess that he’s partial to a gin and tonic rather than a pint down the local boozer. Many also assume his title is hereditary.Here's what you need to know about the personal life of the man who wants to be the UK’s next prime minister.His early lifeStarmer was born in Southwark, south London, in 1962, as the second of four children. His parents were Labour Party members and named him after Keir Hardie, the party’s first leader in parliament.The family moved out of the capital and he grew up in Hurst Green, a village just outside the small Surrey town of Oxted. He was active in youth politics from his teenage years but was also a skilled musician, taking music lessons alongside Norman Cook, who later became better known as a member of The Housemartins and the DJ Fatboy Slim.Starmer played the flute, piano, violin and recorder and was a junior exhibitioner at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama.His familyStarmer with his wife, Lady Victoria Starmer, at the Labour Party Conference in October 2023. (Alamy)Starmer is married to Victoria, a former solicitor who later retrained in occupational health and now works for the NHS. The pair met through their work in the law in the early 2000s and married in Essex in 2007.She was first seen accompanying her husband when the couple were filmed clapping for carers during the pandemic in 2020 outside their home in Camden. They have two children, a son and daughter, but both are kept out of the public eye.Victoria's father was Jewish and originally came from Poland, while her mother converted when they got married. Starmer has said in a previous interview that ""my wife in particular wants our children to know the faith of her family"" and that they ""observe some of the practices, for example Friday night prayers"".His parentsKeir Starmer with parents, Rodney and Josephine, at his graduation. (Twitter/Keir Starmer)The Labour leader's father, Rodney Starmer, worked as a toolmaker in a factory, and his mother Josephine Starmer (née Baker), was a nurse.His father worked 14-hour days but spent his time outside work caring for Josephine, who was diagnosed with the autoimmune condition Still’s disease. She required two hip and knee replacements twice in her lifetime and struggled with arthritic pain.As a young man Starmer also helped care for his mother, which he has said led to him being more emotionally reserved. His sister, Katy, recalled: “He’s had to be a grown-up all his life. I’ve always been quite open about my feelings – Keir is good at most things, but not that.” Josephine Starmer died in 2015, and his father three years later.His educationA photograph of a younger Starmer as shown on ITV's Piers Morgan's Life Stories in 2021. (ITV)Starmer passed the 11-plus examination, and attended Reigate Grammar School from age 11. While he was at the school it became an independent fee-paying institution, but as an existing student he was exempt from fees, and his tuition in the sixth form was covered by a bursary.After school he studied law at the University of Leeds, this first in his family to attend university, graduating with a first class degree in 1985. He undertook postgraduate law studied at the University of Oxford, where he served as editor of a radical magazine, Socialist Alternatives.Why is he a Sir?Keir Starmer pictured in 2010, when he was director of public prosecutions, making a statement about MPs who face charges over their expenses claims. (Getty)Starmer was appointed a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in 2014 in recognition of his work in the legal profession, culminating in a five-year term as director of public prosecutions (DPP).He first became a barrister in 1987 at the Middle Temple, later joining Doughty Street Chambers and was appointed a Queen’s counsel in 2002, aged just 39. In 2008 he was appointed head of the Crown Prosecution Service and DPP.During his tenure he chose to prosecute three Labour MPs and a Conservative in the wake of the parliamentary expenses scandal, and was responsible for prosecuting former MP Chris Huhne and his ex-wife Vicky Pryce for perverting the course of justice after Pryce claimed responsibility for her former husband’s speeding offence."
Yahoo News UK,"Three important UK election issues, explainedRishi Sunak said his leadership is needed in 'uncertain' times. Keir Starmer said the country needs to be 'rebuilt'. So what issues do voters care about most?","['The economy', 'Health', 'Immigration and asylum']",James Cheng-Morris,Updated 28 May 2024 at 11:11 am·5-min read,28,May,2024,11:11:00,5,"After months of speculation, Rishi Sunak confirmed the general election will be held on 4 July.The prime minister said Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer could not be trusted to lead the country through “uncertain” times. He made the economy and combating global security the key elements of his pitch to the nation as he announced the election date.In response, Starmer told voters: “Together we can stop the chaos, we can turn the page, we can start to rebuild Britain.”But amid this “uncertainty” and need to “rebuild”, what do the voters consider the key issues?This chart, produced using YouGov polling over the course of this parliament, offers an insight in the issues voters care most about and how that has ebbed and flowed over time.Compared to when Boris Johnson's Tories won the December 2019 poll, the economy, immigration, defence and tax have grown in importance in the eyes of the electorate. This has come amid the cost of living crisis; small boats crossing the English Channel; the onset of the Ukraine war and wider global instability; and the highest tax burden in 70 years.Housing has also become a bigger concern, with the Renters Reform Bill - in which the government pledged to scrap no-fault evictions - having been paused after Sunak called the election.Meanwhile, the last general election was fought - and won by the Tories - on a single issue: Brexit. Yet the chart shows a clear downturn in its relevance among voters, particularly after a trade deal was agreed with the EU in December 2020.This next chart, meanwhile, highlights what voters have considered the top issues over the past year. By a wide margin, the top three are the economy, health and immigration and asylum.Here, Yahoo News UK breaks down what is behind these issues and how they have ebbed and flowed in importance among voters since the last election in 2019.The economyThe unprecedented lockdown called by Boris Johnson in March 2020 meant the public’s attention shifted to the economy, as demonstrated by the huge spike in the chart above. The then-chancellor Rishi Sunak was forced to implement a £70bn furlough scheme, lasting 18 months, to protect people’s jobs.There was a second almighty economic shock - and rise in public concern - in February 2022 following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. This caused a further spike in an already turbulent wholesale energy market, driving up costs for suppliers and ultimately customers.Average energy bills eventually reached £2,500 a year (and would have exceeded £4,000 had the government not intervened). This was double the £1,278 consumers were paying before the war and by the time this election takes place, people will still be paying much more than this: £1,568.Energy prices were also a key driver in inflation reaching 11.1% - a 41-year high - by October 2022, though it has since fallen to 2.3%, which is near the Bank of England’s 2.0% target.The third economic shock of this parliament - and most damaging for the Tories - was in October 2022 when Liz Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng's disastrous “mini budget”, containing £45bn of unfunded tax cuts, prompted an economic crisis. It led to soaring interest rates, and to this day homeowners who are remortgaging are facing significantly higher bills.HealthHealth, like the economy, is another issue which clearly correlated with the beginning of the pandemic. The above chart shows an enormous spike in public concern when COVID cases started to multiply in March 2020, ultimately leading to the nationwide lockdown as the NHS faced collapse.Cases fell that summer, but spikes in the chart can be seen once infections rose again and fresh nationwide lockdowns were imposed in October 2020 and January 2021. By March 2022, likely as concerns over the Omicron variant faded, there was much less concern about health.In January last year, there was a brief spike as the NHS in England experienced the biggest industrial action in its history, with tens of thousands of nurses and ambulance staff walking out simultaneously.As for the state of play going into the election, NHS waiting lists remain higher than they were when Sunak vowed to cut them last year. According to the latest figures, an estimated 7.54 million treatments were waiting to be carried out at the end of March, relating to 6.29 million patients.Immigration and asylumSince the last election, the immigration and asylum narrative has largely revolved around one issue: small boats crossing the English Channel.The numbers have risen in most of the intervening years: there were 1,843 crossings in 2019, 8,466 in 2020, 28,526 in 2021, 45,774 in 2022 and 29,437 last year. This year, the number has already passed the 10,000 mark.The regular sharp spikes in the above chart demonstrate how frequently crossings have been in the news, including some occasions when hundreds of migrants have made the dangerous journey in a single day.But it also reflects how the government has made this part of its own agenda. It was Boris Johnson’s government which first announced plans to deport migrants to Rwanda in April 2022. That policy was picked up by Rishi Sunak when he became prime minister in October that year, with Sunak since repeating his pledge to “stop the boats”.But after calling the election, Sunak admitted this week that flights would not take off before the country goes to the polls.Read moreFive important laws that could be dropped due to Sunak's snap election (Yahoo News UK)OPINION - Rishi Sunak has been in last-ditch campaign mode for so long — a General Election is logical (Evening Standard)Door open for Boris Johnson to campaign for Tories, Rishi Sunak signals (PA Media)"
The Telegraph,"Cabinet has not given up on election, Rishi Sunak insists",[],Dominic Penna,3 July 2024 at 11:43 am·3-min read,3,July,2024,11:43:00,3,"Rishi Sunak has insisted his cabinet has “definitely not” given up on Thursday’s general election after one of his ministers appeared to admit defeat.Mel Stride, the Work and Pensions Secretary, said in an interview Labour will likely win “the largest majority any party has ever achieved” at a general election.It comes as polls continue to show the Tories trail Sir Keir Starmer’s party by around 20 percentage points, with Mr Stride suggesting a Labour victory could surpass 1997 and 1931.Asked on a visit to a primary school in Hampshire whether he was the “only one” around the cabinet table who had not “resigned themselves to defeat”, Mr Sunak said: “No, that’s definitely not right.“And look, you’ve seen the analysis that shows just 130,000 people switching their votes can make the difference in this election. Every vote matters.“Lots of people want to say it’s a foregone conclusion, but I don’t take that approach, right? Until the last moment I will be taking the same message to everyone I meet. If you want your taxes cut, your pensions protected and your borders secure, just get out there and vote Conservative.”He added: “I’m fighting for what I believe, for the country, I want everyone to understand the choice and what will be, will be after that.”Mr Sunak was also asked about an article for The Telegraph by Suella Braverman, his former home secretary, which attacked his record on net zero, migration and taxes, calling on the Tory Party to rediscover its “soul”.“Lots of people in this campaign, lots of commentary, I’m just focused on getting our message across,” the Prime Minister said.“I’d just ask everyone to separate those frustrations they understandably have with me, the party and the past with what a Labour government would mean for them and their family.“I don’t think people can afford to pay thousands of pounds in higher taxes, I really don’t… What has happened has happened. You can’t change the past, you can change the future.”Asked about a surprise campaign appearance by Boris Johnson on Tuesday, where the two men did not share a stage, Mr Sunak highlighted the event as an example of Tory unity.Pressed on whether he spent any time with his predecessor-but-one, he said: “Yeah, of course, I did, I had a very good chat with him.“What you saw was all Conservatives united in warning what Keir Starmer would mean, undoing all the progress we have made, and as Boris rightly pointed out, just at the moment when we have got through Covid, the impact of the war in Ukraine and we’re cutting people’s taxes and can look forward to a better future, we’d throw all that away if Keir Starmer was in power… It was great to have Boris there last night.”The former prime minister has played a limited role in the campaign, during which he has holidayed in Sardinia and until Monday stayed away from events involving Mr Sunak."
Yahoo News UK,"3 electoral maps that show how disastrous the election could be for the ToriesWith new modelling predicting a Labour victory even bigger than Tony Blair's 1997 landslide, the outlook for Rishi Sunak is not looking good.",['Which Tory ministers are at risk of losing their seats?'],James Cheng-Morris and  James Hockaday,Updated 5 June 2024 at 8:34 am·4-min read,5,June,2024,08:34:00,4,"The outlook was already looking bleak for the Conservative Party when Rishi Sunak called the general election following months of dismal approval ratings that showed little sign of improving.At a campaign event last week, Sunak said he didn't think defeat to Labour was a ""foregone conclusion"", suggesting his main election rival Sir Keir Starmer was taking the British electorate ""for granted"".However, a general election projection released on Monday will have added to the Tories' woes – predicting the biggest win for Labour in the party's history, surpassing even that of Tony Blair's 1997 landslide.The analysis, carried out by YouGov for Sky News, used a relatively new polling technique called Multi-level Regression and Post-stratification (MRP), which is regarded to have had a good track record and can provide detailed predictions at a constituency level basis. The scale of Sunak's problems is demonstrated by the interactive maps below, showing just how much ground the Tories are expected to lose compared to their 2019 victory.Click on the arrows in the top left to switch between the two maps. Check your own constituency to see if it is projected to change handsThe first map above shows the seats won in the 2019 general election, when Boris Johnson led the party to a stunning majority.The wall of Tory blue on the map, compared to the spots of Labour red, is a demonstration of just how far Labour, then led by Jeremy Corbyn, had fallen in public standing. The result was Labour's worst electoral performance since 1935.If you toggle to the second map, the projection by YouGov (which was based on polling carried out between 24 May - 1 June) suggests that Starmer's party is on track to win 422 seats, with the Tories down to just 140.Such a result would be the Conservative Party's worst performance at a general election since 1906. If YouGov's predictions are accurate, Labour winning a 194-seat majority would be the highest number since Conservative Stanley Baldwin won a majority of 208 in 1924.The model suggests the Conservatives could be set for near wipeout across many areas of the country, including London, the North East, the North West, and Wales.It also projects that the Scottish National Party would lose more than half their seats, with Labour returning as the largest party north of the border, and the Liberal Democrats reclaiming its place as the third party of British politics – winning 48 seats.The new figures, released yesterday, came as Reform UK co-founder Nigel Farage announced that he would be returning as the populist party's leader and would stand for election in Clacton-on-Sea, Essex. Even before Farage's latest bid, pollsters told Yahoo News that Reform UK could pose a serious threat to the Tories by splitting the vote and potentially handing even more seats to Labour.The YouGov projection follows a similar poll by modelling site Electoral Calculus, which came out on 31 May. The polling also compares the 2019 result with Electoral Calculus' projection.It predicts that Labour is on course to win an even bigger majority of 319 seats - with Starmer's party picking up 485 MPs and the Tories way behind with 66. The modelling shows the Lib Dems getting very close to the Conservative Party, with 59 seats.While Electoral Calculus' polling, based on opinion polls from 8 May to 20 May, returns a different set of projections to YouGov's, both clearly indicate the scale of the problem facing Sunak.The Electoral Calculus model has predicted Sir Keir Starmer's Labour will win a massive majority. (Getty Images)Which Tory ministers are at risk of losing their seats?According to YouGov's polls this week, 12 out of 26 cabinet members running for re-election could lose their seats on 4 July.""These are some of the biggest names in our politics,"" deputy political editor Sam Coates said as he presented the findings on Sky News. ""Every single one of these, right now, is projected on course to lose at the general election.""Those ministers are:Jeremy Hunt, chancellor: Predicted to lose Godalming and Ash seat to the Liberal Democrats by 15 pointsGrant Shapps, defence secretary: Predicted to lose Welwyn Hatfield to Labour by 18 pointsPenny Mordaunt, Commons leader: Predicted to lose Portsmouth North to Labour by five pointsMark Harper, transport secretary: Predicted to lose Forest of Dean to Labour by four pointsAlex Chalk, justice secretary: Predicted to lose Cheltenham by 31 points to the Liberal Democrats by 31 pointsMel Stride, work and pensions secretary: Predicted to lose Central Devon to Labour by one pointJonny Mercer, defence minister: Predicted to lose Plymouth Moor View to Labour by 11 pointsEsther McVey, minister without portfolio: Predicted to lose Tatton to Labour by one pointGillian Keegan, education secretary: Predicted to lose Chichester to the Lib Dems by five pointsSimon Hart, chief whip: Predicted to lose Caerfyrddin to Labour by nine pointsDavid T C Davies, Welsh secretary: Predicted to lose Monmouthshire to Labour by 11 pointsVictoria Prentis, attorney general: Predicted to lose Banbury to Labour by six pointsKeir Starmer profile: The toolmakers' son vowing to 'rebuild Britain'Rishi Sunak profile: The PM battling to stay in power of election gambleHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhich MPs are standing down before the next election? Full list mappedThe key issues that will decide the electionWhen is the first UK general election TV debate?What is purdah? The strict rule that governs what politicians can and can't say"
Yahoo News UK,"Who is Richard Tice? Reform’s former leader turned Farage sidekickThe candidate for Hartlepool has seen his party's popularity swell in recent months, with one poll showing reform ahead of the Conservatives.",[],Andrew Naughtie,Updated 14 June 2024 at 6:45 am·6-min read,14,June,2024,06:45:00,6,"Now that Nigel Farage has taken over as the leader of Reform UK, Richard Tice’s public profile is fading fast - but the Reform chairman remains involved in the party's operations.So far, the party has only one MP, Conservative defector Lee Anderson. But a recent poll has shown Reform overtaking the Tories, raising the possibility Anderson could hold his seat and even end up with fellow Reformers in the next Parliament.As the candidate for Hartlepool, where he stood as the Brexit Party candidate in 2019, Tice hopes to be one of them. So who is he, and what does he stand for?Childhood and educationBorn in Surrey in 1964 to James Tice, a showjumper, and Joan Tice, a horse trainer. Educated at the private boarding school Uppingham, he studied at the University of Salford, gaining a degree in construction economics and quantity surveying – teeing him up for a career that he said would ""continue the family genes in the property industry"".Family (partner & kids)Tice has three children from a 24-year marriage that ended in divorce. He is now in a long-term relationship with the right-wing writer and journalist Isabel Oakeshott.She is perhaps best known for two notorious incidents that set her against leading Tories: a book that featured the heavily disputed allegation that David Cameron had engaged in sexual activity with a pig, and the release of embarrassing messages entrusted to her by Matt Hancock when she agreed to write a book with him.Keir Starmer profile: The toolmakers' son vowing to 'rebuild Britain'Rishi Sunak profile: The PM battling to stay in power of election gambleHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhich MPs are standing down before the next election? Full list mappedThe key issues that will decide the electionWhen is the first UK general election TV debate?What is purdah? The strict rule that governs what politicians can and can't sayNet worthWhile not quite in the same league as Rishi Sunak, Tice is one of the wealthiest people in British politics. As he describes it on his website, he made his multi-million-pound fortune over the course of “30 years of making things happen in property investment”, starting with a graduate job at a London firm in 1987.According to Tice, the company he leads as CEO, Quidnet Capital, has “bought and managed £500 million in commercial properties across the UK on behalf of clients”.He was also a key figure in the redevelopment of London’s Nine Elms district, near Battersea Power Station, a controversial project that has transformed a stretch of the Thames’s south bank with a welter of rapidly erected high-rise blocks.GB News linksAlong with Nigel Farage, Lee Anderson and several MPs on the right flank of the Tory party, Tice is a regular on the hard-right, culture war-focused TV outlet GB News. There he hosts a programme called “Richard Tice’s Sunday Sermon”, which serves as a platform for him to deliver his political analysis without the interruptions of an interviewer.However, despite the network being a relatively safe space for him in ideological terms, Tice’s appearances aren’t always amicable. A recent interview with host Andrew Pierce, a longtime right-wing commentator, saw him challenged fiercely about Reform’s chances in a summer election should one be called – with Pierce pointing to the “weirdos” selected by the party to fight numerous seats as evidence the party is “not ready”.Richard Tice, pictured in 2018 at a 'Leave Means Leave' campaign event, is focused on the issue of immigration. (Steve Finn/WENN)Tice was also involved in an incident that saw the network deemed in breach of broadcasting regulator Ofcom’s impartiality regulations, specifically an interview in which a former Brexit Party MEP failed to “sufficiently challenge” his views on immigration.The regulator is under increasing pressure to crack down on GB News heading into the election, with critics arguing it cannot be allowed to broadcast shows that feature Tory and Reform MPs interviewing each other without alternative points of view represented.Tice on NHSThe state and future of the NHS set to be one of this election’s main battlegrounds, and Reform’s key health policy is to spend £17 billion on the NHS on top of its current budget in an effort to get waiting lists down to zero. It also proposes introducing tax relief on private healthcare – something that has been criticised by opponents as a creeping step towards the privatisation of healthcare writ large.Tice’s stated rationale is that the reason the service is struggling is because the money it needs is being spent on other things that the public do not in fact support. Top of the list is Net Zero, which the party and its predecessors have long decried as a pointless “woke” project.In April, Tice used a press conference to frame the choice starkly. “We have a choice in this country, it seems to me,” he said. “A pretty clear choice. Do we want zero waiting lists in two years, and to keep them there? That is the Reform choice. Or do we want net zero CO2 emissions in 25 years? That is the Labour choice.”Tice on immigrationImmigration is by far Reform UK’s top issue, with the party looking to build on Farage’s two decades of campaigning against it in its legal and illegal forms.As far as the election goes, Tice and the party are targeting the continuing arrival of small boats of people travelling across the English Channel, many of them seeking asylum. He has criticised the government for failing to stop “mass immigration” post-Brexit, and described Rishi Sunak’s Rwanda policy as “a disaster”, arguing on GB News that its supposed deterrent value was revealed to be zero just hours after the House of Commons finally passed the law.Reform chairman Richard Tice (L) and leader Nigel Farage speak at the party's economic policy launch at Church House in London. (Alamy Live News)“Within a matter of hours more boats, absolutely packed full, overfilled with illegal migrants, were setting off from the beaches. And we learnt on Tuesday morning that sadly five people, including a young child, drowned leaving the beaches. That's not a deterrent. That's an absolute disaster.”Instead of deporting people to Rwanda, he is arguing for a “pick up and take back” policy that would see small boat arrivals deposited back on French soil. As evidence that this is both practical and humane, he has cited similar policies deployed in the US and Australia.However, he has not addressed the fact that Australia’s policy has been criticised internationally for leaving so-called “boat people” confined to facilities on the island of Nauru, where there have been incidents of suicide and self-immolation.Tice on cost of living crisisPerhaps unsurprisingly given he is trying to peel away former Tory voters, Tice has criticised recent Tory prime ministers harshly for overseeing Britain’s intense cost of living crisis. In 2022, he accused then-prime minister Boris Johnson of “waffling” over the situation. “Clueless, out of touch, no ideas, no help,” he tweeted. “Shocking.”He has also warned that the prospect of a “disastrous” Labour government will offer no prospect of meaningful relief for struggling households.Instead, Reform proposes lifting the minimum level of income tax to £20,000 while cutting various other taxes – among them fuel duty, another gesture to the party’s rejection of environmentalism as a top priority."
Yahoo News UK,"Who will win the next general election? Latest polls and oddsDespite recent dip in the polls, Sir Keir Starmer is still riding high, but is the 4 July general election already a done deal? We take a look.","[""Tories to be left 'small and unfamiliar', new super-poll predicts"", ""Reform UK snapping at Tories' heels as Labour takes dip"", ""Labour vote share drops to 'lowest in over two years'"", 'What are the latest odds?', 'What went wrong for the Tories?']",James Cheng-Morris and  James Hockaday,Updated 1 July 2024 at 0:07 pm·8-min read,1,July,2024,00:07:00,8,"Labour's predicted share of the vote at the general election has fallen to its lowest level in months, according to recent projections.A model by research firm JL Partners, made for the Sunday Times, predicts Sir Keir Starmer's party to win 38% of the vote.This is a sizeable fall from 48% predicted by pollsters YouGov on 7 May and comes after the Labour leader's final televised debate against Rishi Sunak on the BBC on Wednesday.The head-to-head saw the Tory leader rip into Starmer's policies, accusing him of ""not being straight with people"" on issues including migration and tax.However, Labour is still riding high compared to its opponents, with JL Partners' latest model putting the party on track to win 450 seats, with a substantial majority of 250.Meanwhile the Tories are set to be reduced to just 105 seats, compared to the 365 they won in 2019 – spelling one of the party's biggest defeats on record.Here, Yahoo News UK summaries the positions of the parties according to three separate opinion polls.Tories to be left 'small and unfamiliar', new super-poll predictsThe number of senior Tory MPs expected to lose their seats after 4 July is ""too many to get your head round"", Scarlett Maguire of JL Partners told Times Radio.“If you take into account who will lose their seats along with who has already announced they will be stepping down, you really are left with, first, a small Conservative Party, with, you know, just 105 seats, but one that also doesn’t have that many familiar faces in it,"" she said.(JLP)JL Partners' projections have been made using a stacked regression post-stratification (SRP) model, which it says uses artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning to gather more accurate and detailed results.It builds on a form of modelling known as multilevel regression and poststratification (MRP) – models that break the electorate down into small demographic chunks, predict their voting behaviour and then ""build"" a version of each seat in the country from the right mixture of demographics.SRP uses AI to combine estimates from many models into a single final estimate. Explaining why this is such a big deal in the world of political modelling, JLP says: ""The main advantage of this kind of stacking is that we can use different models to probe different parts of the data giving a more holistic set of predictions that consider many different facets of the data.""This includes models that are superior at unpicking the constituency level predictors whilst other models can investigate the individual level effects in much more detail.""Some models, like multilevel regression, can analyse both the individual level and constituency level data simultaneously. The combination of these models then produces estimates that more accurately represent the nuances in the underlying data.""Other noteworthy prediction in JLP's model, described as a ""super poll"" by the Times' chief political commentator Tim Shipman, is Reform UK winning two seats, with Nigel Farage predicted to win Clacton and Lee Anderson, who defected from the Tories in March, keeping hold of Ashfield.The Liberal Democrats are also tracked to regain their place as the third party of British politics, going from just 11 seats in the Commons to 55, while the Scottish National Party (SNP) are set to lose 33 seats, leaving only 15.The level of detail in JLP's model means the company has been able to put together a list of major Conservative MPs expected to lose their seats, including Jeremy Hunt, Penny Mordaunt, Grant Shapps, Mel Stride and Esther McVey.You can search for your constituency to find the projected winner and their margin of victory here. Reform UK snapping at Tories' heels as Labour takes dipYouGov's voting intention tracker currently predicts Labour to win 37% of the vote.Although it is still by far the highest scoring political party, it is a significant drop from the 47% recorded on 28 May – six days after Sunak called a surprise snap general election.There is only a 2% margin between Reform UK and the Tories, according to YouGov, with the Conservative's projected to win 20% of the vote, compared to 18% for Nigel Farage's party.Labour vote share drops to 'lowest in over two years'In another sign that Labour's success has plateaued, a recent poll for the Telegraph suggests there is only a 17% gap between the Tories and Starmer's party.This would leave Labour with its lowest predicted vote share since January 2022, when Boris Johnson was still prime minister, according to pollsters Savanta.However, this is unlikely to worry Starmer, as the poll still puts Labour on track to win 38% of the vote and a majority of more than 260 seats.🚨NEW Westminster Voting Intention for Sunday @Telegraph📈Lowest Labour vote share since January 2022🌹Lab 38 (-4)🌳Con 21 (=)➡️Reform 14 (=)🔶LD 11 (+1)🌍Green 6 (+1)🎗️SNP 2 (-1)⬜️Other 7 (+1)2,092 UK adults26-28 June (chg from 21-24 June) pic.twitter.com/cdyp3lJygQ— Savanta UK (@Savanta_UK) June 29, 2024Chris Hopkins, the director of political research at Savanta, told the Telegraph: “This is our lowest Labour vote share since Rishi Sunak became prime minister, and the Conservatives for their part do appear to have slowed or stopped their downward spiral.""He added that a rise in vote share for the Green Party and independent candidates will not have a significant impact on election day but could ""point towards trouble for the Labour Party in government and over the coming years"".What are the latest odds?As of 1 July, Oddschecker – a website which compares odds across different bookmakers – had Labour at 1/41 to win the most seats. To put that in context, this is seen as so likely that a £10 bet would return just £10.24.Bookies are putting the Conservatives at 125/1 to win the most seats, or to win a majority, with both scenarios so unlikely that a £10 punt would return £1,260.Reform UK has better chances, according to Oddschecker, with 80/1 odds of winning the most seats in the general election and 100/1 odds of having an overall majority.What went wrong for the Tories?So, why have the polls changed so dramatically? It's worth looking back on an extremely eventful four-and-a-half years in UK politics.According to YouGov's voting intention tracker (see chart above), Tory support peaked at 53%, with Labour on 32%, in April 2020, months after the party's stunning success in the 2019 general election and Boris Johnson's pledge to “get Brexit done”. That month also saw Starmer take over as Labour leader from Jeremy Corbyn.This was also amid a spirit of national unity following the onset of the COVID pandemic which nearly killed Johnson himself. The then-PM had been released from hospital five days before this particular survey was taken.Boris Johnson delivers his final speech as prime minister outside 10 Downing Street in September 2022. (AFP via Getty Images)Over the rest of the year, there was a downturn in support amid chaos over COVID rules, with the Tories falling as low as 35% in November 2020, compared to Labour on 40%.However, the UK’s successful COVID vaccination programme provided a pathway out of lockdown and with it, improved poll ratings. Tory support peaked at 41% in June 2021, with Labour at 30%.In October that year, there was a sense Johnson was untouchable. At the Tory party conference, the BBC's Laura Kuenssberg remarked how the PM was ""in total command of his party, and politically dominant in the country"".But this fell apart quickly with the Partygate scandal, which emerged in November that year. Time and again, reports emerged of government and Tory staff – including Johnson – having taken part in lockdown-era social gatherings when their own COVID rules had prohibited them.By January 2022, Tory support had plummeted to 28%, with Labour on 38%. Johnson struggled on, but never recovered and a wave of ministerial resignations forced him to resign in July that year.The UK had three separate prime ministers – Boris Johnson, Liz Truss and Rishi Sunak – between 6 September and 24 October, 2022. (Getty Images)His successor, Liz Truss, then embarked on arguably the most disastrous prime ministerial reign in history, characterised by the catastrophic ""mini-budget"", containing £45bn of unfunded tax cuts, which prompted an economic crisis. Like Johnson, she lost the confidence of Tory MPs – and voters – and had to resign.Her 49-day spell as PM was the shortest in history, with Tory support plummeting to 19% (with Labour on 56%) the day after she announced her resignation in October 2022.Rishi Sunak, who had lost to Truss in the previous month's Tory leadership election, took over. However, as the above YouGov chart indicates, he has failed to cut through with voters. Tory support was at 23% two days after he assumed office, with the most recent survey, carried out on Thursday, showing support is now lower than under Truss at 18%.In short, the polls and odds, not to mention other factors such as notable by-election victories for Starmer's Labour, are pointing to a Labour government next week.Your guide to votingHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhat voter ID can I bring to the election?Who is standing in my constituency? Full list of every candidate mappedThe manifestosWhat is a manifesto?The Conservative election manifesto - in briefThe Lib Dem manifesto - in briefThe Labour manifesto - in briefThe leadersWho is Rishi Sunak? The PM battling to stay in power after election gambleWho is Keir Starmer? The toolmaker's son promising change for the UKWho is Ed Davey? Lib Dem leader attracting attention with election stuntsWho is Richard Tice? Reform’s former leader turned Farage sidekick "
Sky News,General Election: Labour on course for biggest majority of any party since 1832 - final YouGov projection,[],Sky News,3 July 2024 at 0:07 pm·3-min read,3,July,2024,00:07:00,3,"Labour are on course for a landslide victory on Thursday with a majority of 212 seats according to the final YouGov poll projection of the campaign.This will give Sir Keir Starmer the biggest majority for any single party since 1832 in a vote which YouGov's last MRP suggests will break a series of electoral records.Some of the biggest names in Conservative politics would lose their seats under this projection, including 16 of the 26 cabinet ministers still standing, including Chancellor Jeremy Hunt.Election latest: The Sun backs Labour for voteThe list of likely losers also includes former Tory leaders like Sir Iain Duncan Smith and potential future leadership contenders like Miriam Cates.According to YouGov, Labour are set to win 431 seats, the highest number in the party's history and passing the previous peak of 419 reached by Tony Blair in 1997 - making Sir Keir the most successful Labour leader in history in electoral terms.This is more than double the 202 seats achieved by Jeremy Corbyn's Labour in 2019.Meanwhile, the Tories are on course for 102 seats, substantially down on the 165 achieved in 1997 under Sir John Major, losing more than two thirds of the 365 elected under Boris Johnson in 2019.Sir Ed Davey's Liberal Democrats are projected to get 72 seats, higher than their previous peak of 62 in 2005 under Charles Kennedy.Nigel Farage's Reform UK is set for three seats, while the Greens are on two seats. The SNP are set to drop from 48 seats in 2019 to 18 seats, according to YouGov.This is YouGov's final call of the election, and the projected majority is a central estimate which they believe could range from 132 to 282.Under the pollster's margin of error, The Labour Party's seats could range from 391 to 466, and the Tories from 78 to 129.The Lib Dems could range from 57 to 87, while the SNP range from eight to 34, Reform from zero to 14, Greens from one to four, and Plaid one to four.The pollster interviewed 47,758 voters in Great Britain between 19 June to 2 July to get the figures.This would mean a bleak national picture for the Tories, becoming a party predominantly of the South East, South West, and East of England. They would face near wipe out in the North East, North West and Wales, areas where Mr Johnson fared much better.The YouGov projection implies vote shares of Labour on 39%, Conservatives on 22%, Reform on 15%, Liberal Democrats on 12%, Greens on 7%, SNP on 3%, Plaid on 1%, and others on 2% - near identical to the previous YouGov MRP poll two weeks ago.It suggests a swing of 14.3% from Conservative to Labour, which is larger than the 10.2% swing from Conservative to Labour in 1997.Read moreWhat are the parties pledging?What are the rules on political donations?What the polls tells us about the electionThe YouGov projection suggests that a significant number of the Tories most prominent politicians are set to lose their seats.Of the 16 cabinet ministers, this includes Mr Hunt in Godalming & Ash who is projected to lose to the Liberal Democrats, and Grant Shapps, the defence secretary and potential leadership contender in Welwyn Hatfield who could lose to Labour.👉 Click to subscribe to the Sky News Daily wherever you get your podcasts 👈There is also Richard Holden, the Tory party chair who could lose in Basildon & Billericay to Labour, and Penny Mordaunt, the leader of the Commons and another leadership contender, who could lose Portsmouth North to Labour.Labour's Thangam Debbonaire could be the only member of the Starmer front bench team to lose their seat, with her Bristol Central seat potentially going to the Greens."
The National,How can I get an emergency proxy vote for the General Election?,"['How can I apply for an emergency proxy vote?', 'When can I make the application?', 'How can I find out more information?']",Lucy Jackson,3 July 2024 at 11:26 am·2-min read,3,July,2024,11:26:00,2,"POLLING stations will be open from 7am until 10pm on Thursday for the 2024 General Election.The deadline for applying for a normal proxy vote has passed. However, in certain circumstances, people may have an emergency which means you can’t vote in person.This means you could be eligible to apply for an emergency proxy vote, which means that someone can vote on your behalf.READ MORE: Election campaign enters final day – but what is purdah, or the pre-election period?Here’s everything you need to know.How can I apply for an emergency proxy vote?According to the Electoral Commission’s website, there are a number of circumstances where you may be eligible for a proxy vote.These include:Having a medical emergencyBeing away for workYour photo ID is lost, stolen, destroyed or damaged after the deadline to apply for a Voter Authority Certificate has passed and can be used if your Anonymous Elector’s Document is lost, stolen, destroyed or damagedWhen can I make the application?The Electoral Commission state: ""In certain circumstances, where you have an emergency that means you can't vote in person, you can apply for an emergency proxy.READ MORE: When will my new MP be announced? See the full list of declaration times""This must be something that you weren't aware of before the normal proxy vote deadline.""Emergency proxy applications can be made up to 5pm on polling day and relevant forms can be found HERE.How can I find out more information?The Electoral Commission also advises people to contact their local electoral registration office if they wish to find out more information about applying.It has a helpful tool HERE which allows you to search for your nearest office by entering your postcode."
The Guardian,"Election exit polls are ‘worst invention ever’, says David Dimbleby",[],Matthew Weaver,3 July 2024 at 11:18 am·2-min read,3,July,2024,11:18:00,2,"David Dimbleby, the election broadcast grandee, has said exit polls are “the worst invention ever” because they take the fun out of election nights.The veteran broadcaster announced to the nation the result of 11 exit poll projections as host of the BBC’s general election coverage from 1979 to 2019. But speaking to the BBC’s Newscast podcast he confessed that he had never liked exit polls.The 85-year-old broadcaster said: “The exit poll is the bane of the broadcaster’s life. It’s the worst invention ever brought in – it’s like a thriller and you’re given the answer before we’ve even started on page one.”Dimbleby recalled the last time the exit poll “completely screwed up” was in 1992, when it predicted a hung parliament in an election that John Major’s Conservatives won with a majority of 21 seats.Since then, the increasing accuracy of exit polls has taken the thrill out of election nights, Dimbleby said.He recalled the excitement of watching election night in the 1950s and 60s before exit polls. Dimbleby said: “I do remember way back the excitement when David Butler, who was the psephologist at the time, when the first result came in he’d take out his slide rule and he’d say very simply: ‘If the whole country goes like this, the result will be whatever majority’ – now that’s what I call real reporting.“But stopping people as they come out of the polling booth and asking: ‘How do you vote?’ and then producing an increasingly accurate picture, seems to me entirely detrimental to the excitement of election night.”He added: “It gives people something to talk about until three in the morning when the first serious results flow starts. But I never liked them. It takes the fun away.”However, Dimbleby admitted that the sound of the BBC’s election night theme tune, which he hummed, still “sends a shiver down my spine”. He added: “As the curtain goes up, you have this moment of ‘I’ve got to get this right’, this first five minutes before the exit poll. And then Big Ben bong, bong: ‘It’s 10 o’clock. And we can now say … that it will be a Labour majority or Conservative majority.’ That’s the kind of heart-stopping moment. So I’ll watch that on BBC and see how they handle that.”After that, he said he would also watch how Sky, Channel 4 and ITV covered the vote. “If I can get my television to work – it always seemed to be on the blink every time I change it.”"
The Independent,Polling predicts how Britain’s diverse voter base could swing at the general election,['Middle East conflict a factor impacting votes'],Nadine White and Alicja Hagopian,3 July 2024 at 11:52 am·5-min read,3,July,2024,11:52:00,5,"New polling has forecast how the UK’s different ethnic minority groups will likely be voting on Thursday, with the war in Gaza a major concern for 1 in 5 of the nation’s Asian voters.Exclusive polling for The Independent by More In Common shows that Black voters are still far more likely to vote Labour than any other party and more than any other ethnicity.Despite the Labour’s recent race rows, some 64 per cent of Black voters are set to rally behind Sir Keir Starmer’s party, compared with 37 per cent of the country’s white population.Ethnic minority voters aged 55+ are twice as likely (29 per cent) to vote Conservative as those aged 25-34 (14 per cent), and four times more than 18-24 year olds (seven per cent).Ed Hodgson, research manager at More In Common, said: “Labour looks set to match their strong national performance with a strong vote share among ethnic minority voters. Given the younger skew of this group, many of them will have voted Labour at every election since 2010, and never voted in a Labour Government.“Ethnic minority voters overwhelmingly think that a Labour government would make their life better, so this election marks the first chance for Labour to prove that this is the case.”Middle East conflict a factor impacting votesThe Independent’s exclusive polling also shows that the attacks in Gaza are seen as a top issue among one in five Asian voters.This means that Asian voters are six times more likely to see the Middle East conflict as a major issue than white voters; 20 per cent compared to three per cent.Mr Hodgson from More In Common said Labour has harmed its reputation with Muslim voters over its early stance on Israel’s campaign against Hamas, although they may still stay loyal.Mr Hodgson added: “For some of Britain’s Muslim Community, Labour has lost their trust over their stance on Gaza. However, given that less than a quarter list Gaza in their top three election issues, Labour’s vote share remains strong.”“This means that, for the most part, regaining the trust of Britain’s Muslims will be a challenge for after the election.”Labour’s leadership has faced criticism from within the party and beyond over its initial stance on the conflict, with Sir Keir criticised for refusing to back an immediate ceasefire in favour of calling for humanitarian pauses.Zara Mohammed, the General Secretary of the Muslim Council of Britain, told The Independent that our polling “highlights significant concerns across Muslim communities and wider British society”.“Many are pained by what is happening in Gaza and are dissatisfied with the political response from the major parties and the current leadership,” Ms Mohammed said.“There is also a strong desire to ensure that Britain is not complicit in the ongoing genocide case against Israel. For the upcoming election, it will be crucial for the next Prime Minister and government to effectively achieve a long-term peaceful solution in the Middle East.”Amid these tensions, 19 per cent of Asian voters believe that a Labour government may actually make their life worse.Overall, however, 43 per cent of ethnic minority voters still believe a Labour government will make their life better.While half of all ethnic minority voters believe Labour reflects their views, a third of young voters (18-24) and older voters (45+) do not feel represented by the policies of Sir Keir’s party.Labour has recently been embroiled in a number of racism rows around its treatment of barrister Martin Forde, longstanding MP Diane Abbott, and prospective parliamentarian and academic Faiza Shaheen.Last month, The Independent revealed that Labour attempted to gag Mr Forde, who authored a report that exposed a “hierarchy of racism” within the party.Meanwhile, Ms Abbott had the Labour whip restored last month, following suspension, but it was briefed out that she might be “barred” from running for the party in the General Election.For days, Sir Keir declined to say whether she would be defending her Hackney North and Stoke Newington seat on July 4, as he faced claims of a “purge” of left-wing candidates.Ethnic minority voters are also far more likely to be concerned about jobs and unemployment than white voters, with 1 in 3 Asian voters and Black voters focusing on these issues, compared to 1 in 10 white voters.Recent analysis by the Trade Union Congress highlighted that the unemployment rate for Black, minority and ethnic workers is more than double that of white workers.In a similar vein, Black voters are twice as likely to be concerned about affordable housing in this election (32 per cent ) compared to white voters (15 per cent), according to our poll.Across England and Wales, people from Black, Asian and minority ethnic communities face disproportionate homelessness. Black people in particular are four times more likely to be homeless than the wider population.Polly Neate, chief executive of Shelter, said: “Racial inequity is hard-wired into our housing system. Structural racism and discrimination mean the odds are often stacked against people of colour: they are less likely to have a safe and secure home and more likely to become homeless.”“Whoever gets the keys to Number 10 must prioritise building a new generation of genuinely affordable social homes. We also need robust renting regulation to root out discrimination in private renting.”"
PA Media: UK News,The Sun says it’s ‘time for a change’ as it backs Labour at General Election,[],"Richard Wheeler and Sophie Wingate, PA",3 July 2024 at 11:35 am·3-min read,3,July,2024,11:35:00,3,"Labour has received the backing of The Sun at the General Election, as the newspaper insisted: “It is time for a change”.The tabloid said it believes the Conservatives, over the past 14 years, have become a “divided rabble, more interested in fighting themselves than running the country”.It added the Tories “are exhausted” as it switched its endorsement to the Labour Party.The Sun is shining on Labour.It’s time for change. https://t.co/53HwDPR45r— Wes Streeting (@wesstreeting) July 3, 2024It said Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has “fought hard” to change the party since the days of Jeremy Corbyn, adding it is “still a work in progress”.It noted “there are still plenty of concerns about Labour”, including on immigration and possible tax rises, and it also noted Sir Keir being an “ex-Remainer” when it comes to Brexit.The newspaper, which has a record of backing the party which then wins the most seats, added: “He has a mountain to climb, with a disillusioned electorate and low approval ratings.“But, by dragging his party back to the centre ground of British politics for the first time since Tony Blair was in No10, Sir Keir has won the right to take charge.”An image of Thursday’s front page alludes to the struggles of England manager Gareth Southgate at the Euros as it states: “As Britain goes to the polls, it’s time for a new manager (and we don’t mean sack Southgate!)”.Sir Keir, answering media questions after a stump speech in Glasgow, said: “I’m delighted to have the support and the backing of The Sun.“I think that shows just how much this is a changed Labour Party, back in the service of working people.”The Sun threw its weight behind Labour at the 1997 general election won by Tony Blair before switching its allegiance to the Conservatives in September 2009.Labour Party leader Sir Keir Starmer has received the backing of The Sun (Stefan Rousseau/PA)Copies of The Sun were banned from Labour’s annual gathering following a decision taken when the conference was held in Liverpool in 2016.A widespread boycott of the paper has been in place in Liverpool due to its coverage of the 1989 Hillsborough disaster.Shadow health secretary Wes Streeting welcomed the Sun’s endorsement.“The Sun is shining on Labour. It’s time for change,” he said.The Sun editorial notes there are “many policies which we support” from Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, including the Rwanda deportation plan and the commitment to scrap national insurance.It added: “But the insurmountable problem faced by the Tories is that – over the course of 14 often chaotic years – they have become a divided rabble, more interested in fighting themselves than running the country.“By the time Rishi Sunak moved into No 10, Britain had had five prime ministers in just 12 years. In 2022 alone, there were four home secretaries, four chancellors, and five education secretaries.“All this upheaval, backstabbing and mayhem came at a price.”After raising concerns over tax increases and other policies, it adds: “Put bluntly, the Tories are exhausted. They need a period in opposition to unite around a common set of principles which can finally bring to an end all the years of internal warfare.“It is time for a change.“Nigel Farage’s manifesto – lower taxes, less immigration, slashing the size of the bloated state – has struck a chord with millions, including many hard-working voters who supported Boris Johnson in 2019. But Reform is a one-man band which at best can only win only a handful of MPs and can never implement its policies.“The Liberal Democrats, meanwhile, are a joke – with a leader who has spent this most depressing of campaigns pulling ridiculous stunts.“Which means that it is time for Labour.“There is no doubt Sir Keir Starmer has fought hard to change his party for the better, even if it is still a work in progress.”"
Yahoo News UK,"Will Nigel Farage's Reform UK 'beat' the Tories in the election?With some polling figures putting the Tories and Reform UK nearly neck and neck, could Farage's party really end up with nearly as many MPs as Sunak's?","['What do the latest polls say?', 'Could Reform UK get more MPs than the Tories?', 'Could the Lib Dems be the official opposition party?', 'What is proportional representation?']",James Cheng-Morris and  Ellen Manning,Updated 14 June 2024 at 6:33 am·7-min read,14,June,2024,06:33:00,7,"Leading pollster John Curtice has poured cold water on suggestions that Reform UK is now beating the Conservative Party in the general election polls.As representatives from seven parties took prepared to take part in a TV debate on Thursday, a YouGov survey for The Times newspaper said Reform’s support had increased by two points to 19%, putting them ahead of the Tories for the first time.Reform UK leader Nigel Farage took the the opportunity to hail the poll results in the debate, declaring: “We are now the opposition to Labour.”But Curtice urged caution, insisting that single polls should not be relied on. He told Radio 4's Today programme: ""This is one poll - we’ve actually, I think, had four other polls published in the last 24 hours - none of which have had Reform ahead, not even all of which have had Reform gaining ground, but quite a couple of them certainly suggesting it’s also got very close.""He said it may not be the case that Reform are ahead - and could be on average four or five points behind. But he said: ""This is still bad news for the Conservatives. The only way Rishi Sunak can hope to get even to base camp in narrowing the lead that Labour have started off with this campaign was to squeeze the Reform vote.""He added: ""Rather than making progress, things are actually going backwards, not least of course because of Nigel Farage’s decision to fight this campaign.""With many speculating that Reform UK with Farage at the helm could ""beat"" the Tories, Yahoo News UK takes a look.What do the latest polls say?YouGov’s voting intention tracker, updated on Tuesday, suggests the Tories and Reform UK are neck and neck.With Labour well ahead on 38%, the Tories are trailing on 18% – compared to a high of 53% under Boris Johnson in 2020 – with Reform UK just behind on 17% and the Liberal Democrats on 15%.However, there are multiple polls taking place at any one time by a number of different companies.According to the PA news agency, an average of all polls that were carried out wholly or partly during the seven days to June 13 puts Labour on 43%, 21 points ahead of the Conservatives on 22%, followed by Reform on 14%, the Lib Dems on 10% and the Greens on 6%.And while Reform’s average is up one percentage point on the figure for the previous week and the Tories are down one point, there is still an eight-point gap, on average, between the two.Could Reform UK get more MPs than the Tories?Unless something remarkable happens, in short: 'No' - and that's because of the first past the post (FPTP) voting system in which the candidate with the largest number of votes in their constituency is elected.According to the Electoral Reform Society, which is against FPTP, this system leads to a situation where “even if millions of voters support the same party, if they are thinly spread out across the UK they may only get the largest number of votes in a couple of these contests – so only win a few MPs"".“Tens of thousands of voters supporting a different party, but who live near each other, could end up with more MPs. This means the number of MPs a party has in parliament rarely matches their popularity with the public.”Rishi Sunak on the campaign trail on Wednesday. (AFP via Getty Images)Farage knows this well. As the leader of UKIP in the 2015 election, he saw his party win 12.6% of the nationwide vote and one seat. The Liberal Democrats won 7.9% of the vote... and eight seats.Indeed, YouGov last week released a poll – put together using the multi-level regression and post-stratification (MRP) surveying technique, from a sample size of nearly 60,000 respondents – which suggested the Tories would win just 140 seats, having won 365 in 2019. But this is still 140 more than the zero it projected Reform UK to win, in spite of its strong polling figures.The model had Reform UK ""performing strongly in a number of seats but still a long way off winning in any"", with projected second-placed finishes in 27 constituencies.YouGov's MRP projection. (YouGov)Granted, this model was formed between 24 May and 1 June, before Farage's headline-grabbing intervention on Monday last week in which he announced he would be standing as an MP.But, even as Reform UK polls closer than ever to the Tories, it's difficult to imagine the party winning more than a handful of seats.Chris Hopkins, director at polling firm Savanta, told Yahoo News UK that in one respect, Reform UK is at an advantage compared to Ukip in 2015 because ""Ukip took votes from both Labour and the Conservatives, and we are not seeing that with Reform UK – they are all coming from the Conservatives.""That is the consequence of Rishi Sunak making immigration a centrepiece of the campaign and failing to deliver on it. Even if you have voters that are neutral on immigration, they would say the small boats policy has been a disaster.""But even so, Hopkins said, Reform UK is still ""at a huge electoral disadvantage"" in that its votes are not very concentrated, they are very evenly spread.""There are going to be some races where Reform UK is strong - the Nigel Farage factor in Clacton is really interesting - but realistically its ceiling is five seats: and that’s a high ceiling.""Could the Lib Dems be the official opposition party?Liberal Democrat leader Sir Ed Davey on a campaign visit in Henley-in-Arden, Warwickshire, on Wednesday. (PA)Like Reform UK, Sir Ed Davey’s Liberal Democrats are performing well in the polls.In a sign of how defensive the Tory campaign is becoming, one online party advert claims voting for Reform UK or the Lib Dems could give Labour 100 extra seats, resulting in the biggest majority in its history.It depicts a scenario where the Conservatives are beaten into third place behind the Lib Dems, with just 57 seats, despite getting 19% of the vote and without Reform winning a single seat.Read more: Pollsters got it wrong in 2015, so could Labour’s lead be overestimated? (The Guardian)However, it remains unlikely the Lib Dems will finish second. YouGov’s MRP poll projected the party performing strongly, winning 48 seats. This would be up 37 from 2019, but still nowhere near the Tories’ projected 140.However, amid all this talk about projections, it’s worth remembering they are still only polls and not a definite indicator of how people will vote on 4 July. The 1992 and 2015 elections are notable examples of how polling didn’t match the end results of Tory wins.What is proportional representation?Proportional representation, as defined by the UK parliament, is an electoral system ""in which the distribution of seats corresponds closely with the proportion of the total votes cast for each party. For example, if a party gained 40% of the total votes, a perfectly proportional system would allow them to gain 40% of the seats.""This differs from the first past the post system, as set out above, in that a relatively high vote share rarely corresponds with increased seats for the smaller parties. In 2019, for example, the Lib Dems won 11.5% of the vote but only 1.7% – 11 – of the 650 seats.Unsurprisingly, both Reform UK and the Lib Dems support proportional representation.The Lib Dems this week made it part of their manifesto, with the party saying it would introduce the single transferrable vote method, a form of proportional representation which allows electors to rank their preference of candidates on the ballot.The party previously sought to change the UK’s voting system while in the coalition government under then-leader Nick Clegg, but voters rejected the plan in a 2011 referendum.Keir Starmer profile: The toolmakers' son vowing to 'rebuild Britain'Rishi Sunak profile: The PM battling to stay in power of election gambleHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhich MPs are standing down before the next election? Full list mappedThe key issues that will decide the electionWhen is the first UK general election TV debate?What is purdah? The strict rule that governs what politicians can and can't say"
The Independent,General election manifestos: Where do the main parties stand on key areas from NHS to immigration,"['NHS', 'Tax and economy', 'Immigration', 'Education', 'Environment']",Albert Toth,3 July 2024 at 11:14 am·7-min read,3,July,2024,11:14:00,7,"With the July 4 general election nearly just days away, all major parties have released their manifestos setting out their vision for the country’s future.The policies within these documents explain what each party would aim to achieve during their time in power, should they successfully secure a parliamentary majority.For all the latest updates ahead of the general election, follow The Independent’s live coverageWhile it’s very unlikely any party but Labour or the Conservatives will form the new government in July, other parties’ manifestos offer an insight into the principles their members hold, and will hold the prevailing government to account on if they secure any MPs.With each manifesto coming in at hundreds of pages, it can be hard to sift through to the important bits, so here’s a handy guide to where all the major parties stand on the key areas:NHSConservativesIncrease NHS spending above inflation every yearLong-term workforce plan: 92,000 new nurses, 28,000 more doctors by the end of next parliamentInvesting £8.6bn into social care system, reaching a funding settlement with local authoritiesSticking to 2019 plan of 40 new hospitals by 2030 (despite concerns from the National Audit Office)Expand Pharmacy First, build or modernise 250 GPs, build 50 more Community Diagnostic CentresLabourReduce waiting time for non-urgent treatment to no longer than 18 weeks from referral40,000 more appointments a week by incentivising out-of-hours working and shared waiting lists between practicesUse ‘spare capacity’ in the private sector to reduce waiting times (in the short-term)8,500 more mental health staffDouble the number of CT and MRI scanners for cancer preventionIntroduce Neighbourhood Health Service and give pharmacists independent prescribing rightsLib DemsGive patients the right to see a GP within 7 days, or 24 hours if urgentRecruit 8,000 new GPsBring in mental health hubs for young people, with check-ups offered at key points in lifeCancer treatment to be guaranteed no more than 62 days after referralGive pharmacists independent prescribing rightsSupport carers with wages at least £2 above the minimum, and free personal care for adultsGreensSteadily reduce waiting lists and grant rapid access to a GP (same day if urgent)Guaranteed access to an NHS dentistBoost NHS staff pay immediatelyRestrict the role of commercial companies in the NHSMove towards a legal and regulated drug marketMake mental health and equal priority to physical health: guaranteed free therapy within 28 daysReformNo tax on frontline NHS staff for first three yearsUse independent healthcare capacity to supplement NHS services20 per cent tax relief on all private healthcare and insuranceNHS patients to receive voucher for private treatment if they can’t see a GP within three daysSet up an ‘excess deaths and vaccine harms’ Covid inquiryTax and economyConservativesAnother 2p cut to national insurance (halving it to 6p from 12p at the start of the year)No increase to personal taxes like income tax or VATMaintain corporation tax at 25 per cent and back businesses to trade and invest in the UKReduce borrowing and debtAbolish main rate of national insurance for self-employed workersLabourNo increases to taxes like income tax, VAT or national insuranceImplement new strict fiscal rules guided by ‘securonomics,’ strengthen the role of the OBRCreate ‘sustained economic growth’ by being the party of ‘wealth creation’Close non-dom tax loopholes and tackle tax avoidanceIntroduce VAT and business rates to private schoolsWindfall tax on oil and gas giantsLib DemsCut income tax by increasing the tax-free personal allowance (frozen since 2022)Reform capital gains tax to make it ‘fairer’ by introducing three rates, similar to income tax, and raising allowanceReverse Conservative ‘tax cuts’ for big banksImplement a one-off windfall tax on ‘super-profits’ of oil and gas companiesProtect the independence of the Bank of England and OBRFix ‘broken relationship’ with Europe to improve trade opportunitiesGreensNo increase to basic rate of income tax during cost of living crisis75 per cent windfall tax on banksIntroduce a ‘wealth tax’: assets over £10 million taxed at 1 per cent; assets over £1 billion at 2 per centReform capital gains by bringing rates in line with income tax, scrap the upper limit of national insurance taxInvest £40bn into the “green economic transformation,” through combined revenue-raising measuresOnly party backing full nationalisation of public utilitiesReformLift income tax allowance to £20k (and higher rate to £70k)Lower fuel duty by 20p per litreReduce stamp duty to 0 per cent below £750k (up from the current £250k)Bring corporation tax down to 15 per cent within three yearsImmigrationConservativeGet Rwanda scheme off the ground as soon as possibleIntroduce a legal cap on migrationIncrease visa feesCut migration by half and then reduce every year of next parliamentLabourReduce migration by training more UK workers to fill employment gapsBan employers from recruiting from overseas as defaultAbolish the non-dom status immediately (curbing transitional measures)Bring in 1,000 more staff dedicated to returning asylum seekers with rejected applicationsCancel the Rwanda policyLib DemsScrap the Rwanda scheme, and provide a safe, legal route for refugeesCreate a dedicated unit to decide on asylum cases within three monthsGive asylum seekers right to work if no decision is made on their case in three monthsGive full settled status to all EU citizens in the UK with pre-settled statusGreensReplace Home Office with Department of MigrationScrap minimum income requirement for spouses of migrants with work visasEnd all detention of migrantsAll asylum seekers to work while their case is being decidedReformAll migrants who arrive illegally from safe countries are barred from claiming asylumSmall boat migrants who cross Channel are sent back to FranceRequired five years residency before benefits can be claimedAsylum seekers to be processed from safe countries offshore20 per cent national insurance for international workersEducationLabourRecruit 6,500 new teachersCreate 100,000 new nursery places and 3,000 primary school-based nurseriesHelp such as training or apprenticeships for all 18-21 year olds looking for workFree primary school breakfast clubs for all childrenConservatives30 hours free childcare from nine months old (from September 2025)Child benefit threshold for single-income households raises to £120,000Schools to ban mobile phonesEnd ‘rip-off’ degrees and fund 100,000 more apprenticeships instead60,000 more school places and 15 new free schoolsLib DemsDedicated mental health professional in every primary and secondary schoolIncrease school and college funding per pupil above inflation every yearIntroduce a ‘tutoring guarantee’ for every disadvantaged pupil needing supportAll adults given £5,000 to spend on education or training throughout their lives, rising to £10k when possibleTriple pupil premium to £1000 a yearGreensAdditional £8bn funding for schoolsAbolish university tuition feesScrap OFSTEDEnd ‘high stakes’ testing in schools to reduce pupil stressReformBan ‘transgender ideology’ in all schoolsNo VAT on private school feesScrap interest on student loansCut funding to universities that ‘undermine free speech’EnvironmentConservativesBan bonuses for water company bosses if the company breaks the lawCreate a new national parkIncrease the UK’s offshore wind capacity threefoldCut the cost of net zero and aim for goal of 2050LabourCreate Great British Energy – a publicly-owned clean power companyBan bonuses for bosses of failing water companiesMake five million homes energy efficientCreate 650,000 new energy jobs by 2030Ban frackingLib DemsWater companies made public and bonuses for bosses bannedIntroduce a 16 per cent sewage tax on water company profitsDouble the size of Protected Area Network by 2050All new homes to be zero carbonPlant 60 million trees a yearGreensBring in a carbon tax on businesses of £120 per tonne emitted (rising to £500 p/t over ten years)70 per cent of UK electricity to come from wind by 2030Ban cage farming and badger cullingBring energy sources into community ownership, allowing excess to be soldRemove oil and gas subsidiesReformScrap VAT on energy billsScrap environmental leviesSpeed up North Sea oil and gas licencesScrap HS2 and ULEZ"
Yahoo News UK,Which MPs quit before the election? Full list mappedA post-war record number of Tory MPs have already decided not to stand in the election.,[],Ellen Manning,Updated 1 July 2024 at 4:42 pm·1-min read,1,July,2024,04:42:00,1,"Voters are heading to the polls to decide who to cast their votes for in the 2024 general election and many will note some familiar names missing from the ballot papers.The Conservatives saw a post-war record 75 MPs decide not to seek re-election, surpassing the previous record of 72 who quit before the 1997 election that saw a Labour landslide under Tony Blair.Levelling up secretary Michael Gove was one of the biggest names to announce they were standing down, along with former prime minister Theresa May and ex-chancellor Nadhim Zahawi.Former business minister Greg Clark and veteran MP Sir John Redwood also confirmed they were quitting, while Brexiteer Dame Andrea Leadsom, a key ally of Boris Johnson, said she was standing down after “careful reflection”.For Labour, 30 MPs in Sir Keir Starmer’s party announced they were leaving parliament, including former deputy leader Harriet Harman, shadow defence minister Steve McCabe and veteran MP Dame Margaret Hodge.In total, 132 MPs announced they were standing down at the 2024 general election. The all-time record for the total number of MPs standing down at an election is 149, which was set in 2010.The record for the total number of MPs standing down at an election is 149, which was set in 2010.Here is a map showing all the MPs who have said they will not stand for re-election:"
The Guardian,What photo ID do I need to vote in the 2024 UK general election?,"['What photo ID do you need to vote?', 'Which types of concessionary travel documents are valid?', 'What if I don’t have any of these documents?', 'What if my valid form of ID has expired?', 'What ID do I need if I am using a proxy vote?', 'Why has photo ID for voters been introduced?', 'What has the impact been on elections?']",Martin Belam,3 July 2024 at 0:00 pm·3-min read,3,July,2024,00:00:00,3,"Don’t get caught out like Boris Johnson did in May’s local elections. For the first time in a UK general election people will need to produce photo ID at polling stations on Thursday to be able to vote in person. Here is what you need to know.What photo ID do you need to vote?There are 20 acceptable forms of valid ID for you to be able to cast your vote, of which the principal ones are a passport or driving licence.Passports can be issued by the UK or any EU country, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein. Passports from any of the 56 Commonwealth countries are also accepted.A driving licence is acceptable if it is a UK or Northern Ireland photocard or issued by an EU country. Licences from Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, the Isle of Man or any of the Channel Islands are also accepted.A Northern Ireland electoral identity card is also valid, as are national identity cards issued by EU countries, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein.Also accepted are a Pass card, a blue badge, a biometric residence permit, a defence identity card (MoD form 90), a voter authority certificate and an anonymous elector’s document.Photo ID from university or college enrolment is not considered valid. But several types of concessionary travel documents are accepted.Which types of concessionary travel documents are valid?A range of travel documents issued to older people and disabled people are valid. They are:Older person’s bus pass.Disabled person’s bus pass.Oyster 60+ card.Freedom pass.Scottish national entitlement card.60 and over Welsh concessionary travel card.Disabled person’s Welsh concessionary travel card.Northern Ireland concessionary travel pass.What if I don’t have any of these documents?You can apply for a photo ID specifically for elections in England, Scotland and Wales, called a voter authority certificate. Unfortunately the deadline for this election has passed. It is free to apply, which can be done here. Northern Ireland has its own electoral identity card system that you can find information on here.What if my valid form of ID has expired?The government says you can still use your ID even if it has expired, provided that the photo still looks like you.What ID do I need if I am using a proxy vote?If you are going to vote on somebody’s behalf with a proxy vote, you need to take your ID with you, not ID for the person for whom you are casting a vote.Why has photo ID for voters been introduced?It appears to be trying to solve a problem that did not really exist. Data from the Electoral Commission said in elections in 2022, before the new rules were introduced, there were seven allegations of personation at polling stations, as the offence is officially known.The former business secretary Jacob Rees-Mogg appeared to suggest last year that introducing it had been motivated by a desire from the government to suppress the non-Conservative vote. He said: “Parties that try and gerrymander end up finding their clever scheme comes back to bite them, as, dare I say, we found by insisting on voter ID for elections. We found the people who didn’t have ID were elderly and they, by and large, voted Conservative, so we made it hard for our own voters.”What has the impact been on elections?About 14,000 people were turned away from polling stations at May’s local elections in England because they lacked the right ID, with the overall number denied a vote likely to be considerably higher, the official elections watchdog has said. It also found that 4% of people surveyed as to why they did not vote said it was because of voter ID.An all-party parliamentary group on democracy and the constitution last year published a report that said the system also led to racial and disability discrimination at the local elections in England.You can find a guide to voter ID from the Electoral Commission here."
