Source,Title,Headings,author,Published,Publish_Day,Publish_Month,Publish_Year,Publish_Time,Read_Time,Article
Sky News,Labour candidate Kevin Craig suspended after betting against himself,[],Sky News,Updated 25 June 2024 at 5:07 pm·4-min read,25,June,2024,05:07:00,4,"A Labour candidate has been suspended by the party after betting against himself - with the Gambling Commission launching an investigation into him.Kevin Craig is running to become the MP for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich - a safe Conservative seat previously held by ex-Tory Dan Poulter, who defected to Labour ahead of the election and is not standing again.Sky News' chief political correspondent Jon Craig understands the bet was relating to the outcome of the vote in his constituency - and the candidate had actually been betting he would lose the contest.Politics live: Dropped Tory candidate vows to 'clear name'Labour confirmed Kevin Craig had been suspended by the party - though at this late stage, he will still appear on the ballot paper with ""Labour"" next to his name.It is also understood that the party will return £100,000 in donations to the businessman that he has made since Sir Keir Starmer took charge of Labour.Posting on X, Mr Craig said he had ""enjoyed the odd bet for fun"" throughout his life, adding: ""A few weeks ago when I thought I would never win this seat I put a bet on the Tories to win here with the intention of giving any winnings to local charities.""While I did not place this bet with any prior knowledge of the outcome, this was a huge mistake, for which I apologise unreservedly.""He said he had ""so much respect"" for Sir Keir and it was ""right that the party upholds the highest standards for its parliamentary candidates - just as the public expects the highest standards from any party hoping to serve in government"".Mr Craig also said he would ""comply fully"" with the Gambling Commission's investigation and apologised to his local Labour team, adding: ""I deeply regret what I have done and will take the consequences of this stupid error of judgement on the chin.""A Labour Party spokesperson said: ""With [Sir] Keir Starmer as leader, the Labour Party upholds the highest standards for our parliamentary candidates, as the public rightly expects from any party hoping to serve, which is why we have acted immediately in this case.""The incident comes after two Conservative candidates were suspended by their party for allegedly placing bets on when the election date would be.Those allegations first emerged almost two weeks ago, with Prime Minister Rishi Sunak saying he would wait for the outcome of the Gambling Commission's inquiry before acting.However, in a U-turn announced this morning, both candidates have now been suspended - though again the Conservative Party name will still appear on ballot papers.Two Tory party officials and an officer from Mr Sunak's close protection team are also being investigated by the Gambling Commission over the placing of bets on the timing of the election.And later on Tuesday, another Conservative politician was also revealed to be under investigation by the commission - Welsh MS Russell George.A statement from the leader of the Welsh Conservatives, Andrew RT Davies, said Mr George would step back from his role as the party's deputy chief whip in the Senedd while the investigation is ongoing.Scotland Secretary Alister Jack has denied any wrongdoing after reports he had made more than £2,000 by betting on the timing of the election.He told Sky News: ""I am very clear that I have never, on any occasion, broken any Gambling Commission rules. Specifically, I did not place any bets on the date of the general election during May (the period under investigation by the Gambling Commission). Furthermore, I am not aware of any family or friends placing bets.""""And for the avoidance of doubt that based on my comment above, the Gambling Commission have obviously not contacted me.""Mr Craig is the founder and chief executive of marketing and PR agency PLMR, with the company's website describing him as ""an expert in political communications, crisis management, and corporate communications"".He also served as a Labour councillor for 17 years in London.A full list of the candidates running for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich is below:Charlie Caiger, independent;Tony Gould, Reform UK;Mike Hallatt, independent;Brett Alistair Mickelburgh, Lib Dems;Dan Pratt, Greens;Patrick Spencer, Conservatives."
The Telegraph,Labour and Lib Dems accused of secret pact over target seats,[],Amy Gibbons,25 June 2024 at 11:31 am·3-min read,25,June,2024,11:31:00,3,"Labour and the Lib Dems have been accused of forming a secret election pact after analysis revealed that the parties’ leaders are steering clear of each other’s target seats.Of the 100 constituencies with the smallest swing required for a Lib Dem victory, Sir Keir Starmer, the Labour leader, has visited just two since the start of the election campaign, according to data compiled by The Telegraph.Meanwhile, Sir Ed Davey, the Lib Dem leader, has been to just one of 100 seats needing the smallest swing for a Labour win, raising suspicions of a covert pact between the parties to oust the Tories.A Conservative Party spokesman claimed it proved the parties had struck an election deal.Andrew Lewer, the Tory candidate for Northampton South, said: “If Starmer and Davey are teaming up and believe that a vote for one is as good as a vote for the other, then they should come right out and say so.”In theory, Labour and the Lib Dems could form a pact to maximise Conservative losses by pulling resources from areas where the other is considered more likely to topple a Tory incumbent.For Labour, this would mean focusing on seats in the north of England that fell to the Conservatives in 2019, while the Lib Dems are said to have the best chance of winning in the Blue Wall, traditional Tory heartlands concentrated in the south of England and the Home Counties.By diverting their efforts away from one another’s target seats, the parties could seek to avoid splitting the anti-Tory vote in some of the Conservatives’ most vulnerable constituencies, giving them a better shot at inflicting a historic defeat on the Government on July 4.Both Labour and the Lib Dems have denied forming a pact, with Sir Ed publicly rejecting the prospect of any election deals with Labour last year. However, analysis by The Telegraph has found that both leaders are largely avoiding seats where the other appears to be in a strong position to beat the Tories.Of the Lib Dems’ top 100 target seats, defined by The Telegraph as those needing the smallest swing for a Lib Dem win, Sir Keir has visited only two as of last Friday – Finchley and Golders Green, in north London, and York Outer, both Tory-held.Of Labour’s top 100 targets, Sir Ed had visited just one – Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath, in Scotland, which is held by the SNP. While Labour would win with a smaller swing, it is also a target seat for the Lib Dems, ranking 69th on their list.Sir Keir has not visited any seats currently held by the Lib Dems, while Sir Ed has been to only one with an incumbent Labour candidate.The Tories claimed Sir Keir was not bothering to challenge the Lib Dems because, no matter how many seats they win, “he knows they won’t oppose Labour on anything”.It comes as a separate analysis by the Financial Times found that Labour was sending activists away from Lib Dem-Tory battlegrounds.The FT reported that volunteers in Somerset, a key Lib Dem target area, have been ordered to travel more than 80 miles to Plymouth, while those in London have been advised to steer clear of seats favoured by Sir Ed’s party in the south-west of the capital.A Conservative Party spokesman said: “This pact just goes to show the Lib Dems are all too happy to go along with Labour’s retirement tax and £2,094 tax raid on working households.“Labour isn’t opposing the Lib Dems because, no matter how many seats the Liberals win, Keir Starmer knows they won’t oppose Labour on anything. The only thing the more Lib Dem MPs would mean is Starmer being dragged even further to the Left.”"
Yahoo News UK,"Who will you vote for in the general election? Tell us what you thinkWith just over a week to go until the general election, have you made your mind up yet?",[],James Hockaday,Updated 25 June 2024 at 9:05 am·2-min read,25,June,2024,09:05:00,2,"Yahoo UK's poll of the week lets you vote and indicate your strength of feeling on one of the week's hot topics. After 72 hours the poll closes and, each Friday, we'll publish and analyse the results, giving readers the chance to see how polarising a topic has become and if their view chimes with other Yahoo UK readers.Voters will head to the polls on 4 July for a snap general election called by Rishi Sunak. (Getty Images)With just over a week to go until the general election, Labour are still on track to win a historic majority in the Commons, according to a number of polls.One of the latest, carried out by research company Focaldata, predicts a 250-seat majority for Sir Keir Starmer's party, with a total of 450 seats. Meanwhile, Rishi Sunak's Conservative Party is on track to lose 262 seats, leaving it with just 110 left, which would be one of its worst-ever defeats.However, if there's one thing recent political events over the past decade have told us, pollsters don't always get it right and there may yet be a few surprises after voters head to polls on 4 July. Never forget that a week is a long time in politics,Nigel Farage's Reform UK is expected to win one seat, according to Focaldata, but YouGov pollster Patrick English claimed in early June that the populist party could win as many as four. The Liberal Democrats are expected to make sizeable gains and reclaim their place as the third biggest party in the Commons, while the SNP are predicted to suffer heavy losses following a turbulent period for the Scottish separatist party.Meanwhile, the Green Party co-leader Carla Denyer could win one new seat in Bristol Central by gaining votes from left-wing voters dismayed by Starmer's so-called ""purge"" of leftist candidates.As of 25 June, YouGov's Voting Intention tracker suggests 36% of voters will choose Labour, compared to 20% for the Tories, who are followed closely by Reform at 18%. The pollster suggests a 14% result for the Lib Dems, compared to 7% for the Greens and 3% for the SNP.But what do you think? Have you decided who you're going to vote for?Which party do you intend to vote for in the general election?And how important is this election to you...?Come back on Friday to read the results and analysis.Read more of Yahoo UK's Poll of the Week articlesYour guide to votingHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhat voter ID can I bring to the election?Who is standing in my constituency? Full list of every candidate mappedThe leadersWho is Rishi Sunak? The PM battling to stay in power after election gambleWho is Keir Starmer? The toolmaker's son promising change for the UKWho is Ed Davey? Lib Dem leader attracting attention with election stuntsWho is Richard Tice? Reform’s former leader turned Farage sidekick  "
Yahoo News UK,Who is Ed Davey? Lib Dem leader attracts attention with election stuntsEverything you need to know about the former minister who has pledged to fight for the NHS.,[],Hannah Fearn,7 June 2024 at 11:47 am·7-min read,7,June,2024,11:47:00,7,"Ed Davey has been involved in a number of comedy stunts since the election was called. (Alamy) With the spotlight on prime minister Rishi Sunak and Labour leader Keir Starmer as they prepare to slug it out in a general election campaign, the focus had started slipping from Liberal Democrat leader Ed Davey until a series of stunts put him back in the spotlight.The former coalition government cabinet minister - who lost his seat, punished by voters for getting into bed with the Tories, but then won it back again - is sending a clear message that he should not be overlooked.He’s had a long political career and the climax may still be ahead: if polls continue to shift away from the Conservatives at the current trajectory, there’s a slim possibility that, if the election is held in October, he could end up as Leader of the Opposition.So what do we know about the man behind the third party in British politics? Hannah Fearn finds out.His early lifeEd Davey was born in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, on Christmas Day in 1965. He was the youngest of three boys, but lost his father at just four years old, and his mother followed over a decade later when he was in his mid-teens. She spent three years battling cancer, during which time he nursed his mother together with his grandmother and brother Henry.Once a keen Scout and Air Scout, he later remembers feeling “isolated” at school because of his caring responsibilities, which meant he couldn’t take part in after-school activities or sports. “The last 18 months she was bedridden and in a lot of pain. I’d spend hours on the bed, talking to her,” he said. Davey was with his mother when she died at Nottingham General Hospital, after being placed on an unsuited dementia ward.After both his parents had died, Davey was brought up by his maternal grandparents in the village of Eakring, though his grandfather died soon after. He spent much of his childhood and young adulthood close to his grandmother. “First of all, she was looking after me. Then we were looking after each other,” he said.Keir Starmer profile: The toolmakers' son vowing to 'rebuild Britain'Rishi Sunak profile: The PM battling to stay in power of election gambleHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhich MPs are standing down before the next election? Full list mappedThe key issues that will decide the electionWhen is the first UK general election TV debate?What is purdah? The strict rule that governs what politicians can and can't sayHis familyDavey married Emily Gasson, a former Liberal Democrat parliamentary candidate, in 2005. Gasson stood in four elections but failed to win a seat and is now a councillor. The pair have two children, a son and daughter.Their son, born in 2007 and now a teenager, is disabled with a neurological condition. He attended special schools but is now educated at home with a tutor - a change that Davey said led to him becoming verbal for the first time. He has spoken about his anxiety about who will care for his son when he and his wife are no longer around. “It’s the thing that worries me more than anything else in my life,” he said.Gasson was diagnosed with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis in 2012. She was well for many years following her diagnosis, but declined during lockdown and is working on recovering her physical strength.Liberal Democrats election broadcast shows Ed Davey with his son. (Liberal Democrats)His parentsHis father, John, was a solicitor and his mother, Nina, a teacher. Davey has described how he was inspired to study by his mother, who always wanted him to try hard academically and who he wanted to impress.His educationDavey attended the private Nottingham High School, the alma mater of former chancellor Kenneth Clarke. He became head boy, with Labour MP Ed Balls - who was studying in the year below - watching on. After school, he achieved a first class degree in philosophy, politics and economics at Jesus College, Oxford where he was junior common room president. After becoming an economics research for the Liberal Democrats he returned to study, reading for a master’s degree in economics at Birkbeck College, London.Ed Davey, pictured with his family. (Liberal Democrats)Why is he a sir?For three years, the Lib Dem leader was a member of the cabinet during the period of Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government, holding the post of secretary of state for energy and climate change from 2012 to 2015. He was knighted in the 2016 New Year’s Honours for “political and public services”.Davey on... the cost of living crisisDavey has repeatedly attacked the government for failing to curb rapid inflation and the devastating effect it is having on household budgets. He called the Conservative Party “so out of touch they might as well be living on another planet”, and said he warned Jeremy Hunt “people are desperate for real help… but all the chancellor could offer is empty words and unfair tax hikes”. In particular, he has urged more action on food price inflation, which analysis from his own party found had risen 37 per cent in one year for the average weekly supermarket trip. He has promised to end energy hikes and abandoned his plan to add 1p to income tax to save the NHS because ordinary voters can no longer afford it.Davey on... the NHSThe Liberal Democrats have made the NHS a cornerstone of their policy platform for the last five years. In Davey’s words: “Voting Conservative is bad for your health.” He promises to reverse cuts to GP numbers and guarantee a doctor’s appointment when you need one, improve access to NHS dentistry and save lives by tackling ambulance call out delays. Davey blames the care crisis for deepening the problems of the health service and says his party would spend £5bn a year on a “care package” to ensure patients are discharged from hospital more quickly, freeing up bed space. However, there is little detail on how this would be financed without raising taxes on the wealthiest - which Davey has promised not to do in his push to poach disillusioned Tory voters.British Leader of the Liberal Democrats party Ed Davey arrives at the BBC Broadcasting House, for his appearance on 'Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg', in London, Britain, April 28, 2024. REUTERS/Maja SmiejkowskaDavey on... immigrationThe Lib Dem leader has been a long-standing advocate for refugee rights and critic of the government’s immigration policy. He has called for Conservative plans to deport failed asylum seekers to Rwanda a “cynical distraction” from the partygate crisis and the money would be better spent on measures to tackle the cost of living crisis. He added: “They’ve provided no evidence to suggest that this new policy will stop illegal smuggling, they’re not cracking down on the organised crime gangs, which is what you need to do.” He has called for a new right to work for refugees and asylum seekers, and major reform of the Home Office which he says is no longer up to the job. After the end of the coalition government, Davey has said his party “was wrong” to go along with the introduction of a minimum income standard for immigrants. He later described the policy as “nasty and unfair”.Davey on... the Post Office scandalDespite the Horizon scandal that led to the wrongful prosecution of more than 700 subpostmasters crossing the tenure of more than a dozen business secretaries, Ed Davey has recently taken the heat for failing to investigate the issue while he was in the job.It has emerged that Davey initially rejected a request to meet justice campaigner Alan Bates, and later accepted it only on the advice that it would be good for his PR. He has recently apologised for not acting earlier, admitting that he is sorry that he “did not see through Post Office lies” about the fault in the Horizon programme."
Yahoo News UK,"Who is Rishi Sunak? PM battles to stay in power after election gambleAs the prime minister calls a snap election, here’s everything you need to know about Rishi Sunak and what he’s saying about the biggest issues in British politics","['Early life', ""Sunak's family"", 'His parents', 'His education', 'How much is he worth?', 'His religion', 'Sunak on... the NHS', 'Sunak on… immigration', 'Sunak on... the cost of living crisis', 'Sunak on... pensions']",Hannah Fearn,23 May 2024 at 7:21 am·8-min read,23,May,2024,07:21:00,8,"Rishi Sunak has the fight of his political life ahead of him after calling a snap general election for 4 July. The polls have consistently painted a very bleak picture for the prime minister, with Labour holding on to a double-digit poll lead over his Conservatives.Recent by-election results suggest that Labour is likely to win a landslide victory – but there’s still time for the PM to turn it around.Here’s everything you need to know about Sunak and what’s he’s saying about the biggest issues in British politics right now.Early lifeSunak was born in Southampton in 1980, the eldest of three children. His Indian parents both arrived from East Africa in the 1960s. A football-mad boy whose childhood idol was Matt Le Tissier, Sunak was described by the family’s neighbours as a child with “lovely manners”.In his youngest years, the PM attended Oakmount, a local private prep school, and later Stroud School in Romsey. According to a recent biography, fellow pupil Ollie Case said: “He was someone that was talked about. The teachers would say: ‘He’s going to be prime minister'.""But, growing up in the 1980s and 90s, he also remembers experiencing racism. “My mother was obsessed with us not having accents,” Sunak has said.Rishi Sunak was football-mad as a boy growing up in Southampton. (ITV)Sunak's familySunak is married to Akshata Murty, the daughter of an Indian entrepreneur and multi-billionaire. The pair first met in 2004 at Stanford University, his future wife apparently attracted to his “honesty and integrity”.Five years later they married in a two-day Indian wedding held in Bangalore. The couple have two daughters, Krishna and Anoushka, who will turn 13 and 11 this year, both of whom are largely kept out of the public eye.Sunak attended Oakmount, a local private prep school, and later Stroud School in Romsey. (Rishi Sunak, Instagram)His parentsYashvir Sunak, Rishi’s father, was born in Kenya. He arrived in the UK to study medicine and then stayed, becoming an NHS GP. His mother, Usha, was born in Tanzania and is a pharmacist.The couple met in Britain and settled in Southampton in the 1970s. Usha is still the director and lead pharmacist at Sunak Pharmacy in Southampton.His educationAs a teenager Sunak studied at Winchester College where he was, he says, a self-confessed “geek”. According to a recent biography, the “naughtiest” thing the prime minister did during his school days “was to smuggle a hand-held television into the school so that he did not miss any key games of Euro 96”.The childhood home of Rishi Sunak in Southampton. (Getty Images, photo taken in 2022)Perhaps unsurprisingly for someone with such an unblemished record, he went on to become the school’s head boy. Sunak worked while studying, delivering medicines for his mother’s pharmacy and as a waiter at a local Indian restaurant.After school, Sunk read philosophy, politics and economics at Lincoln College, Oxford, graduating in 2001 with a first class degree. While still at university he held an internship at the Conservative Party campaign headquarters and joined the party, but went on studying before entering politics.He earned his MBA from Stanford in 2006 as a Fulbright Scholar, meaning he was selected among the most promising candidates from the UK.How much is he worth?As prime minister, Rishi Sunak earns £80,807 on top of a salary of £84,144 for being an MP. But his current income from Westminster pales in comparison to his family’s vast wealth through marriage.The Sunday Times valued the couple’s joint fortune at £730m. Murty's father is the co-founder of Infosys, an Indian tech conglomerate, in which she holds shares estimated at around £430m. Her family is also involved in a £900m business arrangement with Amazon in India, and she is a shareholder of multiple other companies.Rishi Sunak's mother is still the director and lead pharmacist at Sunak Pharmacy in Southampton.Before entering politics Sunak worked for Goldman Sachs and a series of hedge funds. He is also known to have invested in blind trusts, in which investments are made without holders knowing where the funds are located. These arrangements reportedly hold Sunak’s own multi-million-pound fortune.His religionSunak is not only the first prime minister of colour and of Indian heritage but he is also the first practising Hindu to hold the biggest job in UK politics.He has spoken of his pride in his Hindu faith, saying, “that’s how I was raised, and that’s how I am”. He said: “Having faith gives you resilience, gives you strength that is important and it provides an outlook on life which I find particularly valuable.”Sunak on... the NHSThe prime minister’s biggest challenge in office has been the crisis in the NHS - and to many people in the sector his government has been found wanting. “We have not made enough progress,” Sunak said when asked about his commitment to cut NHS waiting lists during an interview with Piers Morgan on TalkTV. Asked if that meant he had failed, the prime minister replied: “Yes, we have.""Sunak expects to see waiting lists start to reduce this spring, and blames the delays on “industrial action”, as disputes with junior doctors and consultants over pay and conditions continue. Yet Sunak himself has been blamed for holding up a deal that would prevent more walkouts.Sunak, his wife Akshata and daughters Anoushka and Krishna (second left) at Santa Monica Pier, California, on their summer holiday in 2023. (AP)Sunak on… immigrationAccording to the prime minister, illegal migration threatens to “overwhelm” Europe. In June 2023 he claimed his plan to “stop the boats” and tackle illegal immigration was working, but by August 2023 he had changed his mind: “It’s not an easy problem to fix,” he told broadcasters. “I never said we would be able to solve it overnight.”He has staked much of his reputation on the government's Rwanda Bill - his plan to deport asylum seekers to the east African country that finally became law last month, after months of legal and procedural challenges. It has paved the way for deportation flights to get off the ground within weeks.He described his policy, which he says will act as a deterrent to people traffickers, as being “the will of the people” – yet polling suggests low support for such a punitive approach.The policy, coupled with Conservative talk of limits on legal migration, shows that the government is committed to taking a hard line on the issue, despite the risk of alienating more moderate voters.The Rwanda policy is not universally popular. (YouGov)Sunak on... the cost of living crisisThe prime minister has told hard-pressed working families that they will feel some relief from the cost of living crisis as inflation continues to drop following its highs of October 2022. He described the government’s tax cuts as “meaningful” and has welcomed the dip in mortgage rates at the turn of the year.Sunak says falling inflation will have the biggest impact on family budgets “and will start to ease some of those pressures” and that he was right to focus on that figure. However, the global drop in energy prices is probably the biggest factor in easing the hit on wallets - something that the prime minister has no control over.However, the fall in inflation to 2.3% on 22 May this year – the lowest it has been in nearly three years – was likely one of the key factors in persuading Sunak to call a snap election many weeks earlier than experts had predicted.Can we expect more handouts or tax breaks to help balance family budgets? Not according to Sunak, who has warned voters that it’s time to “move on” from government support.Sunak on... pensionsThe triple-lock pensions policy is a tricky one for Sunak – especially since Labour has committed to retaining the policy. Any change to a policy that has become a hallmark of recent Conservative governments would not go down well with the 12 million pensioners it would likely impact – many of whom are lifelong Tory voters.Last November, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) said pensions should start being pegged to an average of inflation and wage growth, which would help reduce state spending over time.Sunak’s response to that was ambiguous to say the least: “We are the government that has … delivered the triple lock and it is why, right now, pensions are, depending on how you look at it, £800 or £900 bigger than they otherwise would have been.” He is yet to confirm whether it will appear in the manifesto."
The Telegraph,What time is the election debate tonight? How to watch Sunak v Starmer on BBC,"['When is the next general election debate?\xa0', 'Question Time special – June 28, 8pm on the BBC', 'How many debates will there be before the election?', 'What channels are the debates on?', 'Will the debates clash with any football fixtures?', 'Who won the previous debates?', 'When is the general election?']",Albert Tait,26 June 2024 at 2:42 am·6-min read,26,June,2024,02:42:00,6,"Rishi Sunak and Sir Keir Starmer will go head-to-head once again in a BBC debate tonight – a week before the country heads to the polls.The programme will feature only the Prime Minister and his opposition leader, following a similar format to the ITV debate hosted by Mishal Husain on June 4.It will be one of Mr Sunak’s final opportunities to sway voters before they head to the polls, which currently predict a Tory wipeout at the hands of Labour.Follow The Telegraph’s live general election coverageHere is the remaining debate schedule at a glance: June 26, 8:15pm on the BBCJune 28, 8pm on the BBCSir Keir Starmer speaks at an ITV general election debate in Salford on June 4 - ITVWhen is the next general election debate? The BBC will host what is likely to be the 2024 election campaign’s final TV debate tonight before the country heads to the polls in just eight days. The programme will be another head-to-head clash between Mr Sunak and Mr Starmer only, similar to the ITV debate they took part in on June 4, and hosted by Mishal Husain.It will kick off at 8:15pm and run until 9:30pm.The programme was intended to be hosted by Sophie Raworth, but she has since been asked to step down after fracturing her ankle, according to the BBC.Sir Keir agreed to only two head-to-head discussions at the beginning of the election campaign, saying he would not speak at any of the larger TV debates happening either.Question Time special – June 28, 8pm on the BBCFollowing complaints from the leader of Reform after he was not invited to attend the first Question Time special, the broadcaster has announced a second programme on Friday June 28.The corporation said it had added the second billing to its election coverage to reflect “the fact that it is clear from across a broad range of opinion polls that the support for Reform UK has been growing”.Mr Farage had demanded a spot on Thursday’s programme after an opinion poll put his party ahead of the Conservatives and has said he is “pleased” with the BBC’s recognition of his party’s growing favour.The Question Time special will be hosted by Fiona Bruce from 8pm and the Green Party has also been invited to attend.How many debates will there be before the election?Seven debates were being held in the run-up to July 4, with two left to go following the BBC’s special Question Time broadcast on June 20.The first head-to-head debate between Mr Sunak and Sir Keir on June 4 came before a seven-way BBC debate on June 7 which saw Nigel Farage, Penny Mordaunt and Angela Rayner battle it out alongside four other leading party representatives.The Labour and Tory party leaders then featured again in Sky News’ The Battle for Number 10 programme on June 12.On June 13, Nigel Farage, Penny Mordaunt and Angela Rayner returned alongside four other party leaders in a second seven-way election debate hosted by ITV, which included 90 minutes of questioning.The four main party leaders Mr Sunak, Sir Keir, the SNP’s John Swinney and Sir Ed Davey, the Lib Dem leader, took part in the most recent television special on June 20. The leaders did not go head to head and instead were given 30-minute slots to answer audience questions.The debate announcements were confirmed after the Tories had pressed Sir Keir to take part in a record six debates during the six-week election countdown.Conservative sources had dubbed the opposition leader “the knight that won’t fight” and “Sir Fear Starmer” after he failed to sign up to their weekly debate demand.Labour headquarters indicated instead that their leader would take part in two head-to-head debates against Mr Sunak, matching what Boris Johnson and Jeremy Corbyn did before the 2019 election.What channels are the debates on?The BBC, ITV and Sky News have hosted election debates in an array of formats.All broadcasts from the BBC are available on BBC1, BBC News and are live on the corporation’s streaming platform BBC Iplayer. It is also airing some debates on local radio.The ITV leaders’ debate is available on its steaming service ITVX.Each platform has also streamed programmes on YouTube.The Telegraph is providing live coverage of all the debates with expert analysis and reaction.Will the debates clash with any football fixtures?There have been several clashes between debate timings and football fixtures – an inevitability with the jam-packed TV schedules.Football fans and politics watchers were torn on June 7, when the BBC’s debate with the seven parties coincided with England’s international warm-up with Iceland on Channel 4.England played Denmark the same day as the BBC’s Question Time special, but an earlier kick-off time of 5pm meant the match had finished before the election programme at 8pm.Who won the previous debates?June 4, ITV leaders’ debateMr Sunak seemed extraordinarily confident and put in one of the best performances seen in an election debate, Janet Daley said.Tom Harris, conversely, held that Sir Keir Starmer made more of the opportunity, effectively skewering the Prime Minister on his party’s record in government.June 7, BBC leaders’ debateSherelle Jacobs held that Nigel Farage made real inroads in his bid to overtake the Tories as the preferred party of the Right.But Tom Harris was not convinced, saying that Stephen Flynn, Westminster leader of the SNP, and Plaid Cymru leader Rhun ap Iorwerth fared best.June 12, Sky News’s The Battle for Number 10Tim Stanley said the public came out worse from the tetchy encounter on Sky.Tom Harris argued that Sir Keir’s swagger saw him struggle under scrutiny, whereas Janet Daley said Mr Sunak was more convincing.June 13, ITV leaders’ debateFor Tim Stanley, Nigel Farage and Stephen Flynn were the big winners.Sam Ashworth-Hayes said Angela Rayner showed some awareness of the need for big ideas to fix the NHS.Tom Harris argued that the main loser was the audience, since every single participant in the debate appeared together at the June 7 BBC debate.June 20, BBC Question Time leaders’ interviews specialSam Ashworth-Hayes said Sir Ed Davey and John Swinney did not fare well in their 30-minute interrogations.For Tim Stanley, Sir Keir Starmer’s answers had all been heard before and Mr Sunak’s “hands were lively but his face dead”.When is the general election?The general election will take place on July 4 as the country heads to the polls between 7am and 10pm to have their say over the next prime minister.It was confirmed by Mr Sunak in a rain-sodden speech outside Downing Street on May 22 that the election would happen six weeks later. Both the Prime Minister and other party leaders have been on the campaign trail since then in a bid to win over voters."
Yahoo News UK,"3 electoral maps that show how disastrous the election could be for the ToriesWith new modelling predicting a Labour victory even bigger than Tony Blair's 1997 landslide, the outlook for Rishi Sunak is not looking good.",['Which Tory ministers are at risk of losing their seats?'],James Cheng-Morris and  James Hockaday,Updated 5 June 2024 at 8:34 am·4-min read,5,June,2024,08:34:00,4,"The outlook was already looking bleak for the Conservative Party when Rishi Sunak called the general election following months of dismal approval ratings that showed little sign of improving.At a campaign event last week, Sunak said he didn't think defeat to Labour was a ""foregone conclusion"", suggesting his main election rival Sir Keir Starmer was taking the British electorate ""for granted"".However, a general election projection released on Monday will have added to the Tories' woes – predicting the biggest win for Labour in the party's history, surpassing even that of Tony Blair's 1997 landslide.The analysis, carried out by YouGov for Sky News, used a relatively new polling technique called Multi-level Regression and Post-stratification (MRP), which is regarded to have had a good track record and can provide detailed predictions at a constituency level basis. The scale of Sunak's problems is demonstrated by the interactive maps below, showing just how much ground the Tories are expected to lose compared to their 2019 victory.Click on the arrows in the top left to switch between the two maps. Check your own constituency to see if it is projected to change handsThe first map above shows the seats won in the 2019 general election, when Boris Johnson led the party to a stunning majority.The wall of Tory blue on the map, compared to the spots of Labour red, is a demonstration of just how far Labour, then led by Jeremy Corbyn, had fallen in public standing. The result was Labour's worst electoral performance since 1935.If you toggle to the second map, the projection by YouGov (which was based on polling carried out between 24 May - 1 June) suggests that Starmer's party is on track to win 422 seats, with the Tories down to just 140.Such a result would be the Conservative Party's worst performance at a general election since 1906. If YouGov's predictions are accurate, Labour winning a 194-seat majority would be the highest number since Conservative Stanley Baldwin won a majority of 208 in 1924.The model suggests the Conservatives could be set for near wipeout across many areas of the country, including London, the North East, the North West, and Wales.It also projects that the Scottish National Party would lose more than half their seats, with Labour returning as the largest party north of the border, and the Liberal Democrats reclaiming its place as the third party of British politics – winning 48 seats.The new figures, released yesterday, came as Reform UK co-founder Nigel Farage announced that he would be returning as the populist party's leader and would stand for election in Clacton-on-Sea, Essex. Even before Farage's latest bid, pollsters told Yahoo News that Reform UK could pose a serious threat to the Tories by splitting the vote and potentially handing even more seats to Labour.The YouGov projection follows a similar poll by modelling site Electoral Calculus, which came out on 31 May. The polling also compares the 2019 result with Electoral Calculus' projection.It predicts that Labour is on course to win an even bigger majority of 319 seats - with Starmer's party picking up 485 MPs and the Tories way behind with 66. The modelling shows the Lib Dems getting very close to the Conservative Party, with 59 seats.While Electoral Calculus' polling, based on opinion polls from 8 May to 20 May, returns a different set of projections to YouGov's, both clearly indicate the scale of the problem facing Sunak.The Electoral Calculus model has predicted Sir Keir Starmer's Labour will win a massive majority. (Getty Images)Which Tory ministers are at risk of losing their seats?According to YouGov's polls this week, 12 out of 26 cabinet members running for re-election could lose their seats on 4 July.""These are some of the biggest names in our politics,"" deputy political editor Sam Coates said as he presented the findings on Sky News. ""Every single one of these, right now, is projected on course to lose at the general election.""Those ministers are:Jeremy Hunt, chancellor: Predicted to lose Godalming and Ash seat to the Liberal Democrats by 15 pointsGrant Shapps, defence secretary: Predicted to lose Welwyn Hatfield to Labour by 18 pointsPenny Mordaunt, Commons leader: Predicted to lose Portsmouth North to Labour by five pointsMark Harper, transport secretary: Predicted to lose Forest of Dean to Labour by four pointsAlex Chalk, justice secretary: Predicted to lose Cheltenham by 31 points to the Liberal Democrats by 31 pointsMel Stride, work and pensions secretary: Predicted to lose Central Devon to Labour by one pointJonny Mercer, defence minister: Predicted to lose Plymouth Moor View to Labour by 11 pointsEsther McVey, minister without portfolio: Predicted to lose Tatton to Labour by one pointGillian Keegan, education secretary: Predicted to lose Chichester to the Lib Dems by five pointsSimon Hart, chief whip: Predicted to lose Caerfyrddin to Labour by nine pointsDavid T C Davies, Welsh secretary: Predicted to lose Monmouthshire to Labour by 11 pointsVictoria Prentis, attorney general: Predicted to lose Banbury to Labour by six pointsKeir Starmer profile: The toolmakers' son vowing to 'rebuild Britain'Rishi Sunak profile: The PM battling to stay in power of election gambleHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhich MPs are standing down before the next election? Full list mappedThe key issues that will decide the electionWhen is the first UK general election TV debate?What is purdah? The strict rule that governs what politicians can and can't say"
HuffPost UK,Cabinet Minister Admits Placing Bets On The Date Of The Election,[],Kevin Schofield,26 June 2024 at 1:18 am·2-min read,26,June,2024,01:18:00,2,"Alister Jack said he claimed to have won £2,100 as ""a joke"". Wiktor Szymanowicz via Getty ImagesA cabinet minister has become the most senior Tory to admit putting bets on the date of the election.Scottish Secretary Alister Jack said he laid three wagers, but only one of them came up.He was forced to issue a statement after the BBC reported that he had told them he won £2,100 on the July poll - a claim he later said was “a joke”.Jack said: “Following reports today I want to be absolutely clear I have not breached any gambling rules.“I placed two unsuccessful bets on the date of the general election and one successful one. I put two bets on in March of £5 each for an election to be held in May and June respectively. In April, I put £20 at 5 to 1 on an election being held between July and September.“I had no knowledge of the date of the election until the day it was called. As I have said previously, I placed no bets in May and am not under investigation by the Gambling Commission.”The Tories yesterday dumped two candidates over the betting scandal which has overshadowed that last two weeks of the election campaign.The party’s campaign director and chief data officer have also taken leaves of absence over the controversy, while one of Rishi Sunak’s close protection officers has also been arrested.Meanwhile, the Metropolitan Police has confirmed that the Gambling Commission has told them that five further officers also allegedly placed bets on the election date.The Labour Party also became embroiled in the controversy last night after it dropped a candidate who placed a bet on himself to lose.Kevin Craig, who is standing for Labour in Central Suffolk and North Ipswich, is also being investigated by the Gambling Commission.He said: “A few weeks ago, when I thought I would never win this seat, I put a bet on the Tories to win here with the intention of giving any winnings to local charities.“While I did not place this bet with any prior knowledge of the outcome, this was a huge mistake, for which I apologise unreservedly.”Related...A Tory Candidate At The Centre Of A Betting Scandal Has Begged Voters To Stand By HimLabour Suspends Candidate Accused Of Betting On Himself To LoseA Minister Has Criticised Rishi Sunak's Handling Of The Tory Betting Scandal"
Yahoo News UK,Who will win the next general election? Latest polls and oddsThree new polls have each projected a seismic victory for Labour - with one even suggesting Rishi Sunak could lose his seat.,"[""Tories to slump to lowest number of seats since party's formation"", 'Conservatives on course for worst defeat in over a century', 'Sunak to lose seat in Tory wipeout, major poll predicts', 'What are the latest odds?', 'What went wrong for the Tories?']",James Cheng-Morris and  James Hockaday,Updated 19 June 2024 at 1:08 pm·8-min read,19,June,2024,01:08:00,8,"Three polls released in the space of an hour have indicated that Rishi Sunak is on course for a crushing defeat in the upcoming general election - with one report suggesting he could become the first sitting prime minister to lose his seat.The polls published on Wednesday evening were commissioned by the Telegraph, Sky and the News Agents podcast. All the polls use the multilevel regression with poststratification (MRP) technique, which enables projections to be made at constituency level.And while all three polls indicate Sunak faces an uphill battle to avoid a major defeat, there is a significant disparity from all three as to how far ahead Keir Starmer actually is.Yahoo summaries the key points of the three pollsTories to slump to lowest number of seats since party's formationYouGov's polling for Sky News projects Labour is on course to achieve a 200-seat majority. Labour is predicted to secure 425 seats, the Tories 108, the Liberal Democrats 67, SNP 20, Reform UK five, Plaid Cymru four and the Green Party two.This projection would show the Tories plummeting from the 365 won by Boris Johnson in the 2019 election and give the party their lowest ever number of MPs. It would also give Starmer more seats than the 418 won by Tony Blair in 1997. Read a full report of this poll from Sky NewsThe YouGov poll for Sky News.Conservatives on course for worst defeat in over a centuryAccording to polling by More In Common UK for the News Agents podcast, Labour is projected to finish on 406 seats, a majority of 162. The Conservatives would lose more than half their MPs to 155. The Liberal Democrats would quadruple their number of MPs to 49, while the SNP would be left with 18 seats. Read a full report on this poll from The Independent🚨Our latest @Moreincommon_ @TheNewsAgents MRP is out now.It projects a Labour majority of 162 and a historic Conservative defeat.🔴Lab 406 (+204)🔵Con 155 (-210)🟠Lib Dem 49 (+38)🟡SNP 18 (-30)🟢Plaid 2 (-2)🟩Green 1 (-)Changes on 2019 actuals. pic.twitter.com/XooG8kOxkR— Luke Tryl (@LukeTryl) June 19, 2024Sunak to lose seat in Tory wipeout, major poll predictsAccording to polling by Savanta and Electoral Calculus for the Telegraph, Sunak could become the first sitting prime minister to lose his seat of Richmond and Northallerton to Labour - though Savanta acknowledged this projected result was still in the balance.Out of the three polls, this one projects the biggest victory for Labour. This polling puts Labour on a massive 516 seats, with the Tories on only 53 - just in front of the Lib Dems on 50 - a forecast that would be remarkable were it to be reflected on polling night. According to the Telegraph, this is the first poll to project more than 500 seats for Labour and would be a truly astonishing result were it to happen. Read the full report of this polling on The Telegraph🚨NEW Savanta MRP for @Telegraph 📈Lab projected for 382 majority📉Cons fighting with LDs to be Official OppositionSeat forecast🌹Lab 516 (+316)🌳Con 53 (-319)🔶LD 50 (+42)🎗️SNP 8 (-40)🌼PC 4 (+2)⬜️Other 0 (-1)17,812 UK adults, changes to last GE notional results pic.twitter.com/JNfSE82XQr— Savanta UK (@Savanta_UK) June 19, 2024So why the disparity between the three polls?Firstly, it's important to point out that polls cannot predict future changes in voter sentiment.And, as acknowledged by Electoral Calculus, no polling method is ""fool-proof"" and ""all different pollsters will get different national vote shares"".It has previously said in the blog post - published on 4 June following similar polls showing widely differing sizes of a huge Labour majority - that: ""These results, if they are to materialise, would be unprecedented in British electoral history. Given the nature of these seat totals, it is natural to be slightly sceptical.""It adds: ""Not every MRP is the same. The statistical 'building blocks' used to model voter behaviour will vary from pollster to pollster, which will in turn lead to different vote shares and seat totals. All different pollsters will get different national vote share.""The MRP methodology, as described by YouGov, ""uses data at the constituency level to predict the outcomes of seats based on the concentration of various different types of voters who live there"".Stuart Wilks-Heeg, writing in The Conversation earlier this month, points out some of the other limitations of MRP polling: ""There are ... factors MRPs cannot take into account. Some constituency results will be influenced by locally specific issues that statistical models can’t capture. For example, adjustments cannot be made for who the candidates are in each constituency and whether any have a profile that could enhance, or detract from, their party’s chance of winning. Think Nigel Farage standing for Reform UK in Clacton.""And competing MRPs produce contrasting outcomes because each model uses specific assumptions and data. Different inputs produce different outputs. This election has seen more MRPs produced than ever before, and from various organisations. In the early hours of July 5, we’ll know which one came closest to getting the result correct.""What are the latest odds?As of 19 June, Oddschecker – a website which compares odds across different bookmakers – had Labour at 1/41 to win the most seats. To put that in context, this is seen as so likely that a £10 bet would return just £10.24.The Conservatives are 40/1 to win the most seats, a scenario seen as so unlikely that a £10 punt would return £410.What went wrong for the Tories?YouGov's voting intention tracker between January 2020 and June 2024. (YouGov)So, why have the polls changed so dramatically? It's worth looking back on an extremely eventful four-and-a-half years in UK politics.According to YouGov's voting intention tracker (see chart, above), Tory support peaked at 53%, with Labour on 32%, in April 2020, months after the party's stunning success in the 2019 general election and Boris Johnson's pledge to “get Brexit done”. That month also saw Starmer take over as Labour leader from Jeremy Corbyn.This was also amid a spirit of national unity following the onset of the COVID pandemic which nearly killed Johnson himself. The then-PM had been released from hospital five days before this particular survey was taken.Boris Johnson delivers his final speech as prime minister outside 10 Downing Street in September 2022. (AFP via Getty Images)Over the rest of the year, there was a downturn in support amid chaos over COVID rules, with the Tories falling as low as 35% in November 2020, compared to Labour on 40%.However, the UK’s successful COVID vaccination programme provided a pathway out of lockdown and with it, improved poll ratings. Tory support peaked at 41% in June 2021, with Labour at 30%.In October that year, there was a sense Johnson was untouchable. At the Tory party conference, the BBC's Laura Kuenssberg remarked how the PM was ""in total command of his party, and politically dominant in the country"".But this fell apart quickly with the Partygate scandal, which emerged in November that year. Time and again, reports emerged of government and Tory staff – including Johnson – having taken part in lockdown-era social gatherings when their own COVID rules had prohibited them.By January 2022, Tory support had plummeted to 28%, with Labour on 38%. Johnson struggled on, but never recovered and a wave of ministerial resignations forced him to resign in July that year.The UK had three separate prime ministers – Boris Johnson, Liz Truss and Rishi Sunak – between 6 September and 24 October, 2022. (Getty Images)His successor, Liz Truss, then embarked on arguably the most disastrous prime ministerial reign in history, characterised by the catastrophic ""mini-budget"", containing £45bn of unfunded tax cuts, which prompted an economic crisis. Like Johnson, she lost the confidence of Tory MPs – and voters – and had to resign.Her 49-day spell as PM was the shortest in history, with Tory support plummeting to 19% (with Labour on 56%) the day after she announced her resignation in October 2022.Rishi Sunak, who had lost to Truss in the previous month's Tory leadership election, took over. However, as the above YouGov chart indicates, he has failed to cut through with voters. Tory support was at 23% two days after he assumed office, with the most recent survey, carried out on Thursday, showing support is now lower than under Truss at 18%.In short, the polls and odds, not to mention other factors such as notable by-election victories for Starmer's Labour, are pointing to a Labour government next month.Your guide to votingHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhat voter ID can I bring to the election?Who is standing in my constituency? Full list of every candidate mappedThe manifestosWhat is a manifesto?The Conservative election manifesto - in briefThe Lib Dem manifesto - in briefThe Labour manifesto - in briefThe leadersWho is Rishi Sunak? The PM battling to stay in power after election gambleWho is Keir Starmer? The toolmaker's son promising change for the UKWho is Ed Davey? Lib Dem leader attracting attention with election stuntsWho is Richard Tice? Reform’s former leader turned Farage sidekick "
Yahoo News UK,"Three important UK election issues, explainedRishi Sunak said his leadership is needed in 'uncertain' times. Keir Starmer said the country needs to be 'rebuilt'. So what issues do voters care about most?","['The economy', 'Health', 'Immigration and asylum']",James Cheng-Morris,Updated 28 May 2024 at 11:11 am·5-min read,28,May,2024,11:11:00,5,"After months of speculation, Rishi Sunak confirmed the general election will be held on 4 July.The prime minister said Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer could not be trusted to lead the country through “uncertain” times. He made the economy and combating global security the key elements of his pitch to the nation as he announced the election date.In response, Starmer told voters: “Together we can stop the chaos, we can turn the page, we can start to rebuild Britain.”But amid this “uncertainty” and need to “rebuild”, what do the voters consider the key issues?This chart, produced using YouGov polling over the course of this parliament, offers an insight in the issues voters care most about and how that has ebbed and flowed over time.Compared to when Boris Johnson's Tories won the December 2019 poll, the economy, immigration, defence and tax have grown in importance in the eyes of the electorate. This has come amid the cost of living crisis; small boats crossing the English Channel; the onset of the Ukraine war and wider global instability; and the highest tax burden in 70 years.Housing has also become a bigger concern, with the Renters Reform Bill - in which the government pledged to scrap no-fault evictions - having been paused after Sunak called the election.Meanwhile, the last general election was fought - and won by the Tories - on a single issue: Brexit. Yet the chart shows a clear downturn in its relevance among voters, particularly after a trade deal was agreed with the EU in December 2020.This next chart, meanwhile, highlights what voters have considered the top issues over the past year. By a wide margin, the top three are the economy, health and immigration and asylum.Here, Yahoo News UK breaks down what is behind these issues and how they have ebbed and flowed in importance among voters since the last election in 2019.The economyThe unprecedented lockdown called by Boris Johnson in March 2020 meant the public’s attention shifted to the economy, as demonstrated by the huge spike in the chart above. The then-chancellor Rishi Sunak was forced to implement a £70bn furlough scheme, lasting 18 months, to protect people’s jobs.There was a second almighty economic shock - and rise in public concern - in February 2022 following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. This caused a further spike in an already turbulent wholesale energy market, driving up costs for suppliers and ultimately customers.Average energy bills eventually reached £2,500 a year (and would have exceeded £4,000 had the government not intervened). This was double the £1,278 consumers were paying before the war and by the time this election takes place, people will still be paying much more than this: £1,568.Energy prices were also a key driver in inflation reaching 11.1% - a 41-year high - by October 2022, though it has since fallen to 2.3%, which is near the Bank of England’s 2.0% target.The third economic shock of this parliament - and most damaging for the Tories - was in October 2022 when Liz Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng's disastrous “mini budget”, containing £45bn of unfunded tax cuts, prompted an economic crisis. It led to soaring interest rates, and to this day homeowners who are remortgaging are facing significantly higher bills.HealthHealth, like the economy, is another issue which clearly correlated with the beginning of the pandemic. The above chart shows an enormous spike in public concern when COVID cases started to multiply in March 2020, ultimately leading to the nationwide lockdown as the NHS faced collapse.Cases fell that summer, but spikes in the chart can be seen once infections rose again and fresh nationwide lockdowns were imposed in October 2020 and January 2021. By March 2022, likely as concerns over the Omicron variant faded, there was much less concern about health.In January last year, there was a brief spike as the NHS in England experienced the biggest industrial action in its history, with tens of thousands of nurses and ambulance staff walking out simultaneously.As for the state of play going into the election, NHS waiting lists remain higher than they were when Sunak vowed to cut them last year. According to the latest figures, an estimated 7.54 million treatments were waiting to be carried out at the end of March, relating to 6.29 million patients.Immigration and asylumSince the last election, the immigration and asylum narrative has largely revolved around one issue: small boats crossing the English Channel.The numbers have risen in most of the intervening years: there were 1,843 crossings in 2019, 8,466 in 2020, 28,526 in 2021, 45,774 in 2022 and 29,437 last year. This year, the number has already passed the 10,000 mark.The regular sharp spikes in the above chart demonstrate how frequently crossings have been in the news, including some occasions when hundreds of migrants have made the dangerous journey in a single day.But it also reflects how the government has made this part of its own agenda. It was Boris Johnson’s government which first announced plans to deport migrants to Rwanda in April 2022. That policy was picked up by Rishi Sunak when he became prime minister in October that year, with Sunak since repeating his pledge to “stop the boats”.But after calling the election, Sunak admitted this week that flights would not take off before the country goes to the polls.Read moreFive important laws that could be dropped due to Sunak's snap election (Yahoo News UK)OPINION - Rishi Sunak has been in last-ditch campaign mode for so long — a General Election is logical (Evening Standard)Door open for Boris Johnson to campaign for Tories, Rishi Sunak signals (PA Media)"
The Independent,"Starmer has rebuilt Labour’s trust with Britain’s poorest, new research finds",[],David Maddox,26 June 2024 at 2:02 am·3-min read,26,June,2024,02:02:00,3,"Labour has rebuilt its relationship with low-income people and is no longer “out of touch”, according to a new study by a major think-tank, while the Conservatives have lost ground significantly.Five years ago, Labour was seen as the most “out of touch” party, according to voters on the lowest incomes (some 6 million households with an income of less than £21,000).Nearly half of those questioned in 2019 (45 per cent) regarded Labour as ‘out of touch”. But this figure has plummeted under Sir Keir Starmer’s leadership with just of a quarter of low-income people (27 per cent) now taking this view.The Conservative Party now hold this unenviable reputation with 40 per cent of the poorest voters seeing it as out of touch, up 6 per cent since 2019.Starmer has rebuilt trust with Britain’s poorest (Jane Barlow/PA)The figures come from Breadline Britain’s Election Battleground, a new report from the Centre for Social Justice, which commissioned polling by Survation.Labour is overwhelmingly the most popular party amongst the poorest, with half of those polled saying they would vote for it. This is a 14 per cent increase since 2019. Meanwhile, Conservative support among this group has dropped by 8 per cent to just 15 per cent overall.However, despite Labour regaining ground among low-income voters, the report warns that politicians remain deeply unpopular, with more than half of low-income voters, 57 per cent, saying that “no political party really cares about helping people like me”.It points to a clear disconnect between low-income voters and the politicians who are meant to represent them. Over three quarters (76 per cent) of the poorest say they have never met or spoken to their local MP.Under Jeremy Corbyn Labour was seen as out of touch (Lucy North/PA) (PA Wire)The report is unequivocal: “there is absolutely no change across the five years in the proportions of low-income voters who think the Conservative and Labour parties don’t understand what it’s like to struggle”.The CSJ’s analysis identifies five clear national challenges that the next government need to focus on: good work, stable families, strong communities, public safety, and giving children the best start in life.They go on to provide five recommendations for political parties looking to win the votes of low-income households: Make work pay, create safe streets, build stable communities, support fragile families, and champion the lost generation .Andy Cook, chief executive of the Centre for Social Justice, said: “The more voters feel listened to by a party, the more in-touch the parties are, the more likely they are to vote for that party.“It is time for all parties to make social justice their priority. Not simply because it is the right thing to do, but because it strengthens our democracy and re-engages people with their political representatives. Only this will end lure of the populists, with their “curse on all your houses” politics, who want us to waste our vote in protest, rather than on solutions.“I am an optimist. We can do better. If we focus on the long-term root causes of our troubles – like making work pay and supporting fragile families - rather than quick-fix sticking plasters, then we have the talent and resources to rebuild our future.”"
The Telegraph,Sir Keir Starmer is about to discover just how lucky he really is,[],Jeremy Warner,26 June 2024 at 3:00 am·6-min read,26,June,2024,03:00:00,6,"“Change through economic stability”. This is the mantra which is about to float Sir Keir Starmer’s Labour Party to an overwhelming majority in next week’s general election.As a campaigning message, it hardly sets the pulse racing. But it’s also what people want after the chaos of recent years.The nation has had enough excitement. It craves more settled, middle of the road government, according to the polls, even if that means a rising tax burden. Stability is in itself change.Labour doesn’t have to promise the earth to win; all it has to do is promote the idea that it can provide the competent government that has so sadly eluded us these past eight years.Whether Labour can in practice achieve such an outcome is another matter. It may be that the challenges are just too great. Or the below-the-surface divisions in the Labour coalition too disabling. But luck may be on its side.Rishi Sunak and his Chancellor, Jeremy Hunt, aspired to the same thing, and indeed went some way to delivering it.Yet the brand had already been trashed by what went before; restoring the required sense of calm in the time available to them was always a hopeless task.In any case, it is their economic legacy that Labour will shortly be building on, and it’s actually not nearly as bad as widely portrayed. Labour’s shadow chancellor calls it the worst economic inheritance since the Second World War, but if that’s true, why does she propose to do so little about it?Instead, Labour promises only more of the same. There are a few tweaks to tax and spend but nothing that might unduly frighten the horses.If the manifesto is to be believed, headline rates of income tax, National Insurance, VAT and corporation tax will remain unchanged, the spending envelope is only slightly increased, and ministers will be bound by virtually the same fiscal rules as the present government.We can expect a change of tone, outlook and faces in Downing Street, but not much else. It’s scarcely going to seem like a new beginning. On the broad outline of economic policy, the direction of travel looks little different from the present trajectory.Paul Johnson, director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies, calls it a “conspiracy of silence”, with neither of the two main parties prepared to face up to the scale of the challenges in the public finances.He says: “Regardless of who takes office following the general election, they will – unless they get lucky – soon face a stark choice. Raise taxes by more than they have told us in their manifesto. Or implement cuts to some areas of spending. Or borrow more and be content for debt to rise for longer.“That is the trilemma. What will they choose? The manifestos have left us guessing.”But are things really quite as desperate as the IFS chief paints them? He adds an important qualification – “unless they get lucky”. Here’s how that luck might play out.Most things in economics are relative and compared to much of the rest of Europe, Britain’s position already looks pretty good.Our first past the post electoral system is about to deliver Labour a huge working majority, and although this might be seen as a licence to do stupid things, much more likely is that Labour’s leaders will interpret it in the way the electorate meant: as a mandate for predictable, centrist and competent government.If Labour wants a second term it would be well advised to keep the markets sweet, and focus like a laser on planning, NHS and public sector reform. Disillusionment with the Tories only works once as an electoral weapon.Contrast this with the political chaos unleashed in France by President Emmanuel Macron’s petulant decision to call a snap parliamentary election. This is already looking extremely dangerous for Europe’s fragile monetary union, even if you wouldn’t bet against it given the determination European leaders have shown to date in sustaining it.Yet Paris is a mainstay of the whole construct and if it is kicked away by the deluded demands of the French Right and Left, then there is a real possibility of the whole thing tumbling down.At the very least, continental Europe seems destined to enter another chaotic age. Set against this, the UK may come to be seen as a safe haven, and a consequent magnet for international capital.Nobody in their right mind would invest in France as things stand. Assuming Labour doesn’t similarly turn the nation into a no-go area for commerce, Britain ought to be a major beneficiary of this capital flight.At last there might be some purpose in Brexit, in that it would partially shield the UK from Europe’s descent into economic anarchy. Political stability isn’t everything when it comes to economic growth, but it is an essential backdrop.Labour’s hopes of more benign economic conditions are further underpinned by the natural rhythm of the cycle. Much of the current mess can be attributed to the pandemic, or rather the Government’s response to it, and the subsequent energy price shock.The after-effects are proving more persistent than we might have hoped, but they are gradually fading, with the economy beginning to function normally once more after the pummelling it’s been through.The biggest reason the public finances are in such dire straits is that there has been a £50bn increase in debt servicing costs as a result of higher interest rates.These extra costs help explain why the tax burden has risen to record peacetime levels even as public services are squeezed to the point where they no longer operate properly.They thought zero interest rates would last forever, and spent accordingly. How stupid can you get?Debt servicing costs are admittedly very unlikely to return to the much lower levels that existed three years ago, but they should abate to some degree at least.That said, Office for Budget Responsibility forecasts are already based on growth accelerating from next year onwards, and on debt interest payments falling from around 4pc to 3pc of GDP; yet even so, the Government still struggles to stay within its fiscal rules.To get out of jail free Labour needs higher growth still, or a sustained average of 2pc or more over the years ahead. Fortunately, this is not altogether implausible even with much lower levels of net immigration.One thing that will undoubtedly help is the application of artificial intelligence. It’s impossible to know how much this might boost productivity, but my guess is that it will be by a lot. Even if it’s by no more than the information technology revolution of the 1990s and noughties, it still promises to make a big difference.Forget the worst economic inheritance since the War. By luck rather than design, Labour may be about to fall on its feet."
Yahoo News UK,The Tory ministers and 'big beasts' who could lose MP seats in the electionSeveral big names in the Conservative Party are at risk of losing their seats in the general election.,"['Grant Shapps', 'Penny Mordaunt', 'Liz Truss', 'Jacob Rees-Mogg', 'Johnny Mercer', 'Victoria Prentis', 'Alex Chalk', 'David TC Davies']",Andy Wells,Updated 20 June 2024 at 3:51 am·5-min read,20,June,2024,03:51:00,5,"Rishi Sunak could become the first prime minister to lose his seat in a general election, according to new bombshell polling.According to the Savanta poll, which was commissioned by The Telegraph, the Conservatives are projected to win just 53 seats in the general election. Some three-quarters of the Cabinet would lose their seats in that scenario – including Sunak.Were Sunak to lose his seat in Richmond (Yorks), it would make him the first prime minister in history to lose their seat in a general election, according to the Institute for Government. Chancellor Jeremy Hunt is also facing a battle to hold on to his constituency, with the vote on a “knife edge”.Savanta spoke to around 18,000 people between 7 June and 18 June for their poll. If reflected in the election, Labour would be on course to win 516 seats, with a commanding Commons majority of 382. The Liberal Democrats would have nearly as many seats (50) as the Tories.Jeremy Hunt: My constituency is on a knife edgeHunt could be among the Conservative casualties on the night of the 4 July poll, despite his newly-created seat in Godalming and Ash currently holding a Conservative majority of more than 10,000. He is facing a battle to win the seat in Surrey, with the Liberal Democrats keen on taking a high-profile scalp.Several other Tory ‘big beasts’ also face a tight vote to hold onto their seat, according to a major poll by Ipsos.Grant ShappsDefence secretary Grant Shapps may lose his seat in the election. (Getty)Defence secretary Grant Shapps, who had been touted as a potential leader of the Conservatives after the election, is at risk of losing his Welwyn Hatfield seat, according to Ipsos. Their polling suggests a likely Labour victory, with Sir Keir Starmer’s party currently on 48%, compared to 28% for the Conservatives.Shapps won the seat in the 2019 election with a vote share of 52.6%, increasing his majority from the previous election.Penny MordauntPenny Mordaunt’s seat is at risk from Labour. (PA)Penny Mordaunt, the leader of the House of Commons, is another Tory MP whose name has been mentioned in a future leadership contest – in the event of the Tories losing the election. However, she may not even be an MP after 4 July as her Portsmouth North seat is at risk.Seen as “leaning Labour”, polling suggests Labour are on 42%, compared to the Tories on 34%. She won 61.4% of the vote in the 2019 election.Liz TrussFormer prime minister Liz Truss may not be an MP after the election. (PA)Former prime minister Liz Truss is at risk in her South West Norfolk seat. The seat is seen as a “toss up”, with Truss currently in the lead at 31%. Labour are a sitting at 27% but Reform UK are polling 30%.Allowing for margins of error and another two weeks of campaigning, the seat will be hotly contested between all three parties on 4 July.Jacob Rees-MoggJacob Rees-Mogg is on track to lose his seat at the general election. (PA)While no longer a government minister, Jacob Rees-Mogg losing his North East Somerset and Hanham seat would perhaps be one of the night’s bigger surprises. Rees-Mogg has been an outspoken critic of some of Sunak’s policies and is a regular presenter on GB News.However, the Ipsos poll has the seat, which has been newly-created for the 2024 election, is currently showing a “likely Labour” win, with the party on 47%, compared to 30% for the Conservatives.Johnny MercerPolling suggests Johnny Mercer will lose his seat to Labour at the election. (PA)Veterans’ affairs secretary Johnny Mercer is standing for the Plymouth Moor View seat, having last won the seat in 2019 with an increased vote share of 60.7%. However, a “likely” Labour win is expected, with a projected vote share of 49% on 4 July. The Tories are currently polling at 30% – half of what they won in 2019.Victoria PrentisAttorney general Victoria Prentis is currently facing being replaced by Labour in the election. (PA)A “likely” Labour victory is predicted for Banbury, a seat currently held by attorney general Victoria Prentis. The Tories are polling at 30% in the constituency, compared to 40% for Labour. Prentis is notable for being the first British MP to take a Ukrainian refugee in her house following Russia’s invasion.Alex ChalkThe Libreal Democrats are projected to take over justice secretary Alex Chalk’s seat. (Alamy)Justice secretary Alex Chalk won 48% of the vote in the Cheltenham constituency in the 2019 election. However, the seat is now leaning to being “strong Liberal Democrat”, with Sir Ed Davey’s party polling 60% of the vote. Chalk and the Conservatives are projected to win 26% of the vote, according to Ipsos.David TC DaviesDavid TC Davies is projected to lose his seat in the general election. (PA)Welsh secretary David TC Davies is facing a “likely” Labour victory on 4 July, with the party projected to win 45% of the vote, compared to 30% for the Tories. The constituency has predominately been held by the Tories, with Davies himself representing the seat since 2005.Your guide to votingHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhat voter ID can I bring to the election?Who is standing in my constituency? Full list of every candidate mappedThe manifestosWhat is a manifesto?The conservative election manifesto - in briefThe Lib Dem manifesto - in briefThe Labour manifesto - in briefThe leadersWho is Rishi Sunak? The PM battling to stay in power after election gambleWho is Keir Starmer? The toolmaker's son promising change for the UKWho is Ed Davey? Lib Dem leader attracting attention with election stuntsWho is Richard Tice? Reform’s former leader turned Farage sidekick "
The Independent,General election latest: Betting scandal count rises as Sunak and Starmer face off in last TV debate,"['Key Points', 'Cabinet minister doesn’t know how many Tories will be exposed in betting scandal', 'Seven politicians caught up in election betting scandal', 'Four arrests at Rishi Sunak’s house after man filmed leaving dirty protest in his lake', 'PM backs Kemi Badenock in David Tennant row', 'Labour heading towards ‘massive majority,’ Senior Tory says', '‘Not all Black women think the same’: Dawn Butler weighs in on row between David Tennant and Kemi Badenoch', 'Mel Stride asked where his cabinet colleagues are', 'Stride defends Cabinet colleague Alister Jack after he admitted placing bets', ""‘A ban on politicians betting should be considered'"", ""Mel Stride: Betting scandal ‘deeply disappointing'"", 'What to expect on the General Election campaign trail on Wednesday', 'Starmer has rebuilt Labour’s trust with Britain’s poorest, new research finds', 'Starmer has rebuilt Labour’s trust with Britain’s poorest', 'Tory candidate defends Labour’s Kevin Craig', 'Labour suspends parliamentary candidate over betting investigation', 'Another Sunak minister admits to betting on election date', 'General election polls: Are Labour or the Conservatives on track to win in July?', 'Tory chairman’s campaign leaflets sent to wrong constituency', 'Trans intervention nothing to do with ‘culture wars’ or leadership ambition, says health secretary', 'Watch: Suspended Tory MP in betting scandal urges voters to back him', 'Ask a SNP candidate anything in exclusive Q&A session', 'Labour will keep Bibby Stockholm barge in use if elected, Yvette Cooper confirms', 'Can I still vote in the July general election if I am on holiday?', 'In full: Five more police alleged to have placed bets on election date', 'Kemi Badenoch hints at another Tory leadership run after general election', 'Poll: Support for Reform dips down', 'Ask a Green Party candidate anything in exclusive Q&A session', ""Watch: James Cleverly admits he has 'no idea' how many people are on Bibby Stockholm"", ""Corbyn slams Assange incarceration ‘grotesque miscarriage of justice'"", 'Farage wins GBNews presenter award at TRIC', 'What is tactical voting and where has it been encouraged in the 2024 general election?', 'Labour donor claims UK should cease farming on 75% of farmland', 'Labour suspends parliamentary candidate over betting investigation', 'Tory candidate in betting scandal hopes to still be re-elected', 'Watch: Lib Dem leader Ed Davey cries as he shares struggles of caring for his disabled son', 'Activists defecate Rishi Sunak’s private lake', 'Ask a SNP candidate anything in exclusive Q&A session', 'Voters believe betting scandal candidates should be suspended', 'Chicken runs, boundary changes and a battle of economists: On the campaign trail in new constituency Hitchin', 'Tory chairman’s campaign leaflets sent to wrong constituency', 'Craig Williams speaks up after being suspended from Conservative party', 'Faiza Shaheen accuses Labour of telling ‘vicious lies’ about her deselection', 'Akshata Murty joins Jeremy Hunt in the campaign trail', ""Gething: ‘If a professional footballer had placed a bet, he’d be banned'""]",Salma Ouaguira and Maryam Zakir-Hussain,26 June 2024 at 3:44 am·25-min read,26,June,2024,03:44:00,25,"The number of politicians caught up in the betting scandal has risen to seven after a cabinet minister admitted placing bets on the date of the general election.Scotland Secretary Alister Jack placed three wagers on the timing of the 4 July poll, but said he has not breached any gambling rules.As well as seven politicians, the Gambling Commission is investigating five Metropolitan Police officers, and one constable has already been arrested and questioned.On Tuesday, Labour was drawn into the scandal, suspending candidate Kevin Craig after being told the Gambling Commission has launched an investigation into him.Mr Craig said he “deeply” regrets putting a bet on the Tories winning in the Suffolk constituency he is contesting and will “fully comply” with a Gambling Commission investigation.Following pressure from opponents and his own party, on Tuesday Rishi Sunak suspended two candidates. Craig Williams, who is standing in Montgomeryshire and Glyndwr, and Laura Saunders, who is standing in Bristol North West, will still appear on ballot papers at the election as nominations have closed.Key PointsSeven politicians caught up in election betting scandalFive more Met officers accused of placing betsCraig Williams admits he committed ‘error of judgement'Lord Foster demand Sunak explain delay over suspending candidatesWhat to expect on the General Election campaign trail on WednesdayCabinet minister doesn’t know how many Tories will be exposed in betting scandal08:52 , Maryam Zakir-HussainCabinet minister Mel Stride said he did not know how many Tories would end up being dragged into the Gambling Commission investigation into the possible misuse of inside information on the election date.The BBC reported that 15 Conservative candidates or officials were being looked at by the watchdog.Mr Stride told LBC Radio: “I don’t know what the number is, what the number may or may not end up as, or indeed which parties may be involved, because we have obviously just heard that a Labour candidate has apparently betted against himself in the constituency in which he is standing and has been suspended as a consequence.“So I don’t know where all of this will lead, it could be that there will be others across different political parties going forward.“But what I do know is that in the case of those Conservative candidates, who are being investigated by the Gambling Commission, they have been suspended. They are not supported as Conservative candidates in this election.“Indeed, the Prime Minister has been very clear that in the event that they are found to have broken the rules by the Gambling Commission, they will be expelled from the Conservative Party.”Seven politicians caught up in election betting scandal08:43 , Maryam Zakir-HussainThe Westminster gambling row has deepened after a cabinet minister revealed he had placed bets on the date of the general election, as the number of politicians involved rises to seven.Scotland secretary Alister Jack denied having broken any rules but said he put three wagers on the timing of the July 4 poll, becoming the latest of seven politicians and officials to get drawn in to the controversy.Labour was also dragged into the row on Tuesday, with the party suspending its candidate Kevin Craig after it emerged he had bet that he would lose to the Tories in the contest for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich.Mr Jack said he had in April put £20 at odds of 5 to 1 on an election being held between July and September, but that he had no knowledge of when it would be called until the day that Rishi Sunak fired the starting gun on May 22.Four arrests at Rishi Sunak’s house after man filmed leaving dirty protest in his lake08:37 , Maryam Zakir-HussainFour men have been arrested on suspicion of aggravated trespass at Rishi Sunak’s constituency home, as video appears to show an intruder carrying out a dirty protest in a lake at the property.The men were detained at around 12.40pm on Tuesday before being escorted off the prime minister’s property in Kirby Sigston, North Yorkshire Police said.The force added that the men included one 52-year-old from London, one 43-year-old from Bolton, one 21-year-old from Manchester, and one 20-year-old from Chichester.Four arrests at Sunak’s house after protester leaves ‘parting gift’ in his lakePM backs Kemi Badenock in David Tennant row08:19 , Maryam Zakir-HussainRishi Sunak has backed Kemi Badenoch in the row with David Tennant, after the actor said he wishes the Tory minister would “shut up”.The prime minister posted on X: “ Freedom of speech is the most powerful feature of our democracy. If you’re calling for women to shut up and wishing they didn’t exist, you are the problem.”Freedom of speech is the most powerful feature of our democracy.If you’re calling for women to shut up and wishing they didn’t exist, you are the problem.— Rishi Sunak (@RishiSunak) June 26, 2024Labour heading towards ‘massive majority,’ Senior Tory says08:13 , Maryam Zakir-HussainLabour appears to be heading to a “massive majority”, Work and Pensions Secretary Mel Stride said.The senior Tory, a close ally of Rishi Sunak, told Sky News: “I’m extremely worried for the future if we have a Labour government, particularly if we have one that is totally unrestrained because it has a massive majority, which is what we appear to be heading towards, with very little opposition in Parliament.“I would just say to people on that score that I think it’s really important that we think very carefully about holding Labour to account, if they are to win this coming General Election, and that people do vote Conservative so that we have a decent opposition at least to an overweening Labour Party.” (PA Wire)‘Not all Black women think the same’: Dawn Butler weighs in on row between David Tennant and Kemi Badenoch07:56 , Maryam Zakir-HussainDawn Butler has weighed in on the row between David Tennant and Kemi Banedoch after the actor suggested the Equalities Minister should “shut up”.Ms Badenoch wrote in a post online yesterday: “I will not shut up. I will not be silenced by men who prioritise applause from Stonewall over the safety of women and girls.“A rich, lefty, white male celebrity so blinded by ideology he can’t see the optics of attacking the only black woman in government by calling publicly for my existence to end.”Commenting on Ms Badenoch’s response, Ms Butler, the Labour candidate for Brent East wrote: “Not all Black women think the same. I agree with David Tennant. That’s it, that’s the tweet.”Not all Black women think the same. I agree with David Tennant.That's it, that's the tweet.— Dawn Butler ✊🏾💙 (@DawnButlerBrent) June 26, 2024Mel Stride asked where his cabinet colleagues are07:46 , Maryam Zakir-HussainThe work and pensions secretary has been quizzed over why so few of his cabinet colleagues are picking up the morning media rounds, Archie Mitchell reports.The government sends a minister each day to answer questions from broadcasters, with Mel Stride having picked up more than his fair share since the general election kicked off.Asked by Sky News why he had appeared nine times since the start of May while colleagues have not been seen at all, Mr Stride said it was likely because much of the election campaign was focused on tax.“We’re not even talking about the top offices of state and the prime minister, but the broad cabinet has not really been seen during this campaign coming out beating their chests to say we are proud of the work we have done… are you surprised how often you’ve been sent out?” Mr Stride was asked.Addressing the tax focus of the election, he said: “It’s an area I have a particular interest and expertise in and often when we are not talking about betting and things suddenly coming from stage right we are talking about exactly those issues.”Stride defends Cabinet colleague Alister Jack after he admitted placing bets07:34 , Maryam Zakir-HussainWork and Pensions Secretary Mel Stride defended Cabinet colleague Alister Jack, who has said he put three wagers on the timing of the July 4 poll.Mr Stride told Times Radio: “The important thing with Alister I think, is the fact... the bet or bets or whatever it may have been that he placed did not occur in May.“He’s very clear that he has not broken any of the rules and is not indeed being investigated by the Gambling Commission.” (AFP via Getty Images)‘A ban on politicians betting should be considered'07:30 , Maryam Zakir-HussainWork and Pensions Secretary Mel Stride suggested a ban on politicians betting should be considered.Asked if it should be banned, he told Times Radio: “Quite possibly and I think we do need to have a debate about it.”But he said there were “all sorts of variations of gambling around politics“.“My personal view, I would just say that people shouldn’t do it, but I think we should have a debate about it more broadly.“But let me be very, very clear: by saying that, I totally recognise that using inside information, as may have been the case for certain individuals in this way, is utterly wrong.”Mel Stride: Betting scandal ‘deeply disappointing'07:28 , Maryam Zakir-HussainWork and Pensions Secretary Mel Stride said the election betting scandal was “deeply disappointing”.He told Times Radio: “It’s deeply unsatisfactory, that anybody should - if it is proven to be the case - use inside information in this way.“Obviously the Gambling Commission is continuing its inquiries, we need to await the outcome of that to establish those as facts or otherwise.“So I would describe it as deeply, deeply disappointing if that is happening.“And I am as angry as the Prime Minister is about it. And that’s why after internal inquiries, he took that decision - I think it was right to do so - to suspend some of those candidates that are standing in the election, so I think the right steps have been taken.” (PA)What to expect on the General Election campaign trail on Wednesday07:24 , Maryam Zakir-HussainThe gloves come offRishi Sunak and Sir Keir Starmer will make their closing arguments to the nation as they go head to head in their final TV debate before polling day next week.The scandal over candidates and officials betting on the timing of the election will loom large over Wednesday’s clash after a Cabinet minister became the latest figure to say he had placed bets on the timing of the vote.Labour’s family doctor promiseLabour will talk up its pledge to end the 8am scramble for GP appointments by training more doctors and updating the NHS app so slots are easy to book and rearrange.Shadow health secretary Wes Streeting will be promoting the message, saying his party is also committed to bringing back the family doctor, to give patients continuity.The blue wall and the yellowWhile Liberal Democrat leader Sir Ed Davey continues campaigning across traditionally Tory heartlands in southern England, his Scottish counterpart will be in the south-east of Scotland.Reform UK chairman Richard Tice will be in Scotland giving a speech on net zero and “saving the oil and gas industry”.Starmer has rebuilt Labour’s trust with Britain’s poorest, new research finds07:20 , Maryam Zakir-HussainLabour has rebuilt its relationship with low-income people and is no longer “out of touch”, according to a new study by a major think-tank, while the Conservatives have lost ground significantly.Five years ago, Labour was seen as the most “out of touch” party, according to voters on the lowest incomes (some 6 million households with an income of less than £21,000).Nearly half of those questioned in 2019 (45 per cent) regarded Labour as ‘out of touch”. But this figure has plummeted under Sir Keir Starmer’s leadership with just of a quarter of low-income people (27 per cent) now taking this view.Starmer has rebuilt Labour’s trust with Britain’s poorest, new research findsStarmer has rebuilt Labour’s trust with Britain’s poorest07:18 , Salma OuaguiraLabour has rebuilt its relationship with low-income people and is no longer “out of touch”, according to a new study by a major think-tank, while the Conservatives have lost ground significantly.Five years ago, Labour was seen as the most “out of touch” party, according to voters on the lowest incomes (some 6 million households with an income of less than £21,000).Nearly half of those questioned in 2019 (45 per cent) regarded Labour as ‘out of touch”. But this figure has plummeted under Sir Keir Starmer’s leadership with just of a quarter of low-income people (27 per cent) now taking this view.The Conservative Party now hold this unenviable reputation with 40 per cent of the poorest voters seeing it as out of touch, up 6 per cent since 2019.The figures come from Breadline Britain’s Election Battleground, a new report from the Centre for Social Justice, which commissioned polling by Survation.You can read The Independent full story hereTory candidate defends Labour’s Kevin Craig07:18 , Maryam Zakir-HussainA Tory candidate and long-serving MP has said Labour may have overreacted in suspending Kevin Craig for betting against himself in the general election, Archie Mitchell reports.Sir Conor Burns, who has been the MP for Bournemouth West since 2010, said Mr Craig “could not have had any inside information or really influenced the outcome of his bet - any more than any candidate can determine a free vote”.He detailed the pair’s friendship, which dates back more than 30 years to when they were political opponents at Southampton University.“He is one of the most decent, straightforward and kind people I know. And when I have needed friends most he has always been the first to be there. A good guy,” Mr Buns said.Labour suspends parliamentary candidate over betting investigation07:08 , Salma OuaguiraLabour has suspended parliamentary candidate Kevin Craig after being told the Gambling Commission has launched an investigation into him.PR boss Craig is standing in Central Suffolk and North Ipswich.Suspended Labour candidate admits betting against himself at electionAnother Sunak minister admits to betting on election date07:05 , Salma OuaguiraThe Westminster gambling row has deepened after a cabinet minister revealed he had placed bets on the date of the general election.Scotland secretary Alister Jack denied having broken any rules but said he put three wagers on the timing of the July 4 poll, becoming the latest of seven politicians and officials to get drawn in to the controversy.Rishi Sunak will face further pressure over the revelation, which comes after he caved to mounting calls from within the Tory Party to withdraw support for two parliamentary candidates facing a Gambling Commission investigation.Labour was also dragged into the row on Tuesday, with the party suspending  its candidate Kevin Craig after it emerged he had bet that he would lose to the Tories in the contest for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich.Mr Jack said he had in April put £20 at odds of 5 to 1 on an election being held between July and September, but that he had no knowledge of when it would be called until the day that Rishi Sunak fired the starting gun on May 22.Another Sunak minister admits to betting on election date as gambling row deepens General election polls: Are Labour or the Conservatives on track to win in July?07:00 , Salma OuaguiraGeneral election polls: Are Labour or the Conservatives on track to win in July?Tory chairman’s campaign leaflets sent to wrong constituency06:00 , Salma OuaguiraHundreds of campaign leaflets for the chairman of the Conservative party Richard Holden have been sent to the wrong constituency, the BBC reports.The party has admitted the mistake was out of their control but it did not confirm how many were lost.Mr Holden, who oversees the national party campaigning, has seen his election material end up in Rayleigh and Wickford.He confirmed that just a “few hundred” leaflets were misplaced but some party insiders have admitted it is more like thousands.Trans intervention nothing to do with ‘culture wars’ or leadership ambition, says health secretary05:00 , Salma OuaguiraVictoria Atkins has denied that her intervention this morning on the trans debate had anything to do with opening up a new “culture wars” front in the general election or her own leadership ambitions.The health secretary was wheeled out by the Conservatives this morning to respond to Labour’s plans to modernise the laws regarding changing gender.It comes after a poll last night again showed the Tories even trailing Reform in third place and still 25 points behind Labouras the gambling scandal on the election date continued to hit their credibility.Ms Atkins is already being discussed as a future leadership option after what now seems to be an inevitable defeat for the Tories with polls suggesting that it could be the worst in their 346-year history.Trans intervention nothing to do with leadership ambition, says health secretary03:00 , Salma Ouaguira02:00 , Salma OuaguiraWatch: Suspended Tory MP in betting scandal urges voters to back him01:00 , Salma OuaguiraStatement pic.twitter.com/bXoQm8ARRy— Craig Williams (@craig4monty) June 25, 2024Wednesday 26 June 2024 00:01 , Salma OuaguiraAsk a SNP candidate anything in exclusive Q&A sessionTuesday 25 June 2024 23:30 , Salma OuaguiraThe Independent is giving readers the chance to chat directly with candidates from some of the major political parties in a special general election series of Ask Me Anything events.In one question and answer session, our community will be able to chat exclusively with SNP candidate Drew Hendry, who is looking to hold his seat on July 4.In its manifesto, the party makes it plain that it wants to rejoin the European Union and the single market, and “reverse the damage of Brexit”.That only looks likely to be an option if Scotland becomes independent, so it’s unsurprising that the SNP is also pledging to “intensify” the pressure to secure Scottish independence.If you have a question about the SNP’s manifesto, pledges or policies submit it here.Labour will keep Bibby Stockholm barge in use if elected, Yvette Cooper confirmsTuesday 25 June 2024 23:06 , Salma OuaguiraLabour will keep Bibby Stockholm barge in use if elected, Yvette Cooper confirmsCan I still vote in the July general election if I am on holiday?Tuesday 25 June 2024 22:30 , Salma OuaguiraCan I still vote in the July general election if I am on holiday?In full: Five more police alleged to have placed bets on election dateTuesday 25 June 2024 22:00 , Salma OuaguiraAnother five police officers are alleged to have placed bets on the timing of the general election.The Metropolitan Police said it had been passed information on the allegations from the Gambling Commission.It came after Rishi Sunak finally bowed to pressure and withdrew the Conservative Party’s support for two candidates embroiled in the betting scandal.The Tories have dropped Craig Williams and Laura Saunders, both of whom are linked to the prime minister’s inner circle and are under investigation by the commission.But two weeks after allegations first emerged even a Conservative former cabinet minister asked “why did it take so long”.Kemi Badenoch hints at another Tory leadership run after general electionTuesday 25 June 2024 21:30 , Salma OuaguiraKemi Badenoch hints at another Tory leadership run after general electionPoll: Support for Reform dips downTuesday 25 June 2024 20:45 , Salma OuaguiraReform's poll rating has dipped slightly in the wake of Nigel Farage's Putin/Ukraine comments- down 3 points to 15% from 18% with @JLPartnersPolls - down 2 points to 14% from 16% with @Savanta_UK - they say it's ""the first real wobble of Reform UK's campaign""— Alex Wickham (@alexwickham) June 25, 2024Ask a Green Party candidate anything in exclusive Q&A sessionTuesday 25 June 2024 20:00 , Salma OuaguiraThe Independent is giving readers the chance to chat directly with candidates from some of the major political parties in a special general election series of Ask Me Anything events.In one of the sessions, our community will be able to chat exclusively with Dr Ellie Chowns, who is hoping to be elected MP in North Herefordshire for the Green Party.Serving as the party’s housing and communities spokesperson, Dr Chowns served as a Member of the European Parliament (MEP) for the West Midlands for the party from 2019 to 2020. She has also been a councillor on Herefordshire Council since 2017, representing the Bishops Frome & Cradley ward, and is leader of the council’s Green group.If you have a question about the Green Party’s manifesto, pledges or policies submit it here now.Dr Chowns will join the conversation live at 6pm on Friday 28 June for the “Ask Me Anything” event.Find out more here.Watch: James Cleverly admits he has 'no idea' how many people are on Bibby StockholmTuesday 25 June 2024 19:30 , Salma OuaguiraCorbyn slams Assange incarceration ‘grotesque miscarriage of justice'Tuesday 25 June 2024 19:00 , Salma OuaguiraJulian Assange is free.Julian exposed the crimes of the powerful. His incarceration was — and always will be — a grotesque miscarriage of justice.Never stop fighting for the truth. Never lose hope. Never, ever give up.— Jeremy Corbyn (@jeremycorbyn) June 25, 2024Farage wins GBNews presenter award at TRICTuesday 25 June 2024 18:30 , Salma OuaguiraThe Reform UK leader has scooped an award for the best news presenter at the TRIC awards.Nigel Farage with the News Presenter Award at The TRIC Awards 2024 at The Grosvenor House Hotel on June 25, 2024 in London (Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images)What is tactical voting and where has it been encouraged in the 2024 general election?Tuesday 25 June 2024 18:00 , Salma OuaguiraTactical voting is when a voter casts their ballot for the candidate they believe is most likely to defeat another party’s candidate (usually the Conservatives), even if this candidate is not necessarily their first choice.Some see this as a necessary practice due to the UK’s ‘First Past The Post’ (FPTP) voting system. Under FPTP, it is the candidate who gets the most votes that wins.It may seem like the most democratic system to decide a winner at first glance, but many argue that FPTP does not always produce results that reflect the political leanings of the area.You can read more belowWhat is tactical voting and how could it affect the general election result?Labour donor claims UK should cease farming on 75% of farmlandTuesday 25 June 2024 17:30 , Salma OuaguiraOne of Labour’s donors has claimed that the UK should cease farming on 75 per cent of the country’s farmland to “give back to nature”.Dale Vince, who has donated more than £5 million to Labour’s election campaign, described farming livestock as an “inefficient system”.He said: “If we all stop eating animals today, tomorrow, whenever in our country, we can free up 75 per cent of that farmland, right?“And that 75 per cent of 75 per cent, do the maths, that’s half of our entire country that we can give back to nature.”Steve Barclay, the Environment Secretary, said: “With Labour’s biggest backers wanting to close down farms to rewild them it is clear they simply have no idea about our rural communities.”Tuesday 25 June 2024 17:22 , Howard MustoeLabour suspends parliamentary candidate over betting investigationLabour has suspended parliamentary candidate Kevin Craig after being told the Gambling Commission has launched an investigation into him.PR boss Craig was standing in Central Suffolk and North Ipswich.Tory candidate in betting scandal hopes to still be re-electedTuesday 25 June 2024 17:00 , Salma OuaguiraCraig Williams said he remained committed to his campaign to be re-elected as an MP after the Conservatives withdrew their support for him.He said in his video statement: “In all these things, due process is important and that is what sets the UK apart from other countries, and the commission must be allowed to do its work.“It’s been a privilege for me to be the Member of Parliament for the constituency where I was born, raised and now live with my young family.“I have been working hard, helping thousands of constituents with our team with everything from benefits to housing, from potholes to energy bills, as well as securing an unprecedented level of investment in our local businesses, communities and high streets, and finally sticking up for farmers, because without farmers there is no food, and without food there is no future.“For now, however, the most important thing I want to say to you today is I am committed to my campaign to be elected as your Member of Parliament and your staunch champion.”Watch: Lib Dem leader Ed Davey cries as he shares struggles of caring for his disabled sonTuesday 25 June 2024 16:30 , Salma OuaguiraActivists defecate Rishi Sunak’s private lakeTuesday 25 June 2024 16:10 , Salma Ouaguira🚨 BREAKING: Youth Demand have taken a sh*t in Rishi Sunak's private lake to ""give the Tories exactly what they have given us - a sh*tshow"" pic.twitter.com/seSOWmhHnn— Politics UK (@PolitlcsUK) June 25, 2024Ask a SNP candidate anything in exclusive Q&A sessionTuesday 25 June 2024 16:00 , Salma OuaguiraThe Independent is giving readers the chance to chat directly with candidates from some of the major political parties in a special general election series of Ask Me Anything events.In one question and answer session, our community will be able to chat exclusively with SNP candidate Drew Hendry, who is looking to hold his seat on July 4.In its manifesto, the party makes it plain that it wants to rejoin the European Union and the single market, and “reverse the damage of Brexit”.That only looks likely to be an option if Scotland becomes independent, so it’s unsurprising that the SNP is also pledging to “intensify” the pressure to secure Scottish independence.If you have a question about the SNP’s manifesto, pledges or policies submit it here.Voters believe betting scandal candidates should be suspendedTuesday 25 June 2024 15:49 , Salma OuaguiraVoters think candidates who had placed bets on the election date should be barred from standing, Kate Devlin reports.Two thirds of the public, 63 per cent, say candidates who placed bets on the date of the general election should not be allowed to stand.And more than half, 54 per cent, of Conservative voters agree.The Savanta research was carried out between 21 and 24 June, before today’s announcement the Tories were withdrawing their support for Craig Williams and Laura Saunders.Chicken runs, boundary changes and a battle of economists: On the campaign trail in new constituency HitchinTuesday 25 June 2024 15:39 , Salma OuaguiraChicken runs and boundary changes: On the campaign trail in new constituency HitchinTory chairman’s campaign leaflets sent to wrong constituencyTuesday 25 June 2024 15:34 , Salma OuaguiraHundreds of campaign leaflets for the chairman of the Conservative party Richard Holden have been sent to the wrong constituency, the BBC reports.The party has admitted the mistake was out of their control but it did not confirm how many were lost.Mr Holden, who oversees the national party campaigning, has seen his election material end up in Rayleigh and Wickford.He confirmed that just a “few hundred” leaflets were misplaced but some party insiders have admitted it is more like thousands.Craig Williams speaks up after being suspended from Conservative partyTuesday 25 June 2024 15:27 , Salma OuaguiraThe candidate for Montgomeryshire, who has been dropped by the Tories as a candidate over bettingon the election timing, has admitted he committed a mistake.Craig Williams said he remained on the ballot paper and intended to clear his name after being dropped by the Conservatives over betting on the date of the General Election.In a video posted on X, formerly Twitter, Mr Williams said: “I just want a quick message to the constituents of Montgomeryshire and Glyndwr. I remain on the ballot paper come July 4 and I hope to secure your support after years of delivery.“I committed an error of judgment, not an offence, and I want to reiterate my apology directly to you.“I am fully co-operating with routine inquiries from the Gambling Commission and I intend to clear my name.”Statement pic.twitter.com/bXoQm8ARRy— Craig Williams (@craig4monty) June 25, 2024Faiza Shaheen accuses Labour of telling ‘vicious lies’ about her deselectionTuesday 25 June 2024 15:24 , Salma OuaguiraThe former candidate, who is now running as an independent after being dropped from the party, claims Labour members are spreading “vicious lies” about her deselection.Ms Shaheen claims the party told voters she was suspended for “more serious reasons”.Some parents just told me in my baby sensory class that the Labour Party told them that they shouldn’t vote for me because I wasn’t blocked from standing because of liking a few tweets, but for more serious reasons. I’ve heard this several times now. This is a vicious lie. I’m… pic.twitter.com/SToyuOwFG5— Faiza Shaheen (@faizashaheen) June 25, 2024Akshata Murty joins Jeremy Hunt in the campaign trailTuesday 25 June 2024 15:13 , Salma OuaguiraThis morning a real treat - Akshata Murty aka Mrs Sunak in Bramley, Godalming and Ash. The Sunak and the Hunt family are not just friends; we have been neighbours for the last 18 months. Akshata and I went on to see Phil in Bramley’s Apple and the team in Nest cafe to see how… pic.twitter.com/QkTSt65rbr— Jeremy Hunt (@Jeremy_Hunt) June 25, 2024Gething: ‘If a professional footballer had placed a bet, he’d be banned'Tuesday 25 June 2024 15:06 , Salma OuaguiraVaughan Gething has said that a footballer would be banned from the game if they placed a bet in the way Conservative candidates have been accused of doing.Responding to a question from Conservative MS Natasha Asghar on his own integrity at FMQs on Tuesday, Mr Gething said: “If you really want to talk about scandals – and today is a day to do that, is it not, Natasha Asghar – look at former Conservative Senedd staffer Craig Williams, now finally junked as a Conservative candidate.The first minister of Wales added: “And let’s be clear if a professional footballer had placed a bet in the way that Craig Williams did, he’d be banned from the game.“That’s what would happen.”"
The Telegraph,Election diary: Sunak and Starmer gear up for final head-to-head debate,[],Dominic Penna,26 June 2024 at 1:29 am·1-min read,26,June,2024,01:29:00,1,"Rishi Sunak and Sir Keir Starmer will take part in the final head-to-head debate of the general election on Wednesday night, with just eight days of the campaign remaining.The Prime Minister is set to clash with the Labour leader from 8:15pm in a BBC One show broadcast from Nottingham hosted by Mishal Husain, the Today programme presenter.The 75-minute debate will be seen as the last chance for Mr Sunak to shift the dial as the Conservatives continue to trail Labour by around 20 points in the polls and shed support to Nigel Farage’s Reform UK.Read the latest election pollsFollow The Telegraph’s live election coverageSir Keir will start the day in the East Midlands at 9.30am on a campaign visit with Wes Streeting, the shadow health secretary.The Labour frontbenchers will visit a GP practice where they will set out the party’s plans to revive family doctors and tackle the 8am scramble for appointments.In Scotland, Alex Salmond will launch the Alba Party’s manifesto as the former SNP first minister argues that his challenger party is the only one focused on achieving Scottish independence.Stephen Flynn, the SNP leader in Westminster, will participate in a farm shop visit with his party’s candidate for Gordon and Buchan, while Richard Tice, the chairman of Reform, focuses his attention on the Scottish economy and Reform’s opposition to net zero at a press conference."
Yahoo News UK,"Will Nigel Farage's Reform UK 'beat' the Tories in the election?With some polling figures putting the Tories and Reform UK nearly neck and neck, could Farage's party really end up with nearly as many MPs as Sunak's?","['What do the latest polls say?', 'Could Reform UK get more MPs than the Tories?', 'Could the Lib Dems be the official opposition party?', 'What is proportional representation?']",James Cheng-Morris and  Ellen Manning,Updated 14 June 2024 at 6:33 am·7-min read,14,June,2024,06:33:00,7,"Leading pollster John Curtice has poured cold water on suggestions that Reform UK is now beating the Conservative Party in the general election polls.As representatives from seven parties took prepared to take part in a TV debate on Thursday, a YouGov survey for The Times newspaper said Reform’s support had increased by two points to 19%, putting them ahead of the Tories for the first time.Reform UK leader Nigel Farage took the the opportunity to hail the poll results in the debate, declaring: “We are now the opposition to Labour.”But Curtice urged caution, insisting that single polls should not be relied on. He told Radio 4's Today programme: ""This is one poll - we’ve actually, I think, had four other polls published in the last 24 hours - none of which have had Reform ahead, not even all of which have had Reform gaining ground, but quite a couple of them certainly suggesting it’s also got very close.""He said it may not be the case that Reform are ahead - and could be on average four or five points behind. But he said: ""This is still bad news for the Conservatives. The only way Rishi Sunak can hope to get even to base camp in narrowing the lead that Labour have started off with this campaign was to squeeze the Reform vote.""He added: ""Rather than making progress, things are actually going backwards, not least of course because of Nigel Farage’s decision to fight this campaign.""With many speculating that Reform UK with Farage at the helm could ""beat"" the Tories, Yahoo News UK takes a look.What do the latest polls say?YouGov’s voting intention tracker, updated on Tuesday, suggests the Tories and Reform UK are neck and neck.With Labour well ahead on 38%, the Tories are trailing on 18% – compared to a high of 53% under Boris Johnson in 2020 – with Reform UK just behind on 17% and the Liberal Democrats on 15%.However, there are multiple polls taking place at any one time by a number of different companies.According to the PA news agency, an average of all polls that were carried out wholly or partly during the seven days to June 13 puts Labour on 43%, 21 points ahead of the Conservatives on 22%, followed by Reform on 14%, the Lib Dems on 10% and the Greens on 6%.And while Reform’s average is up one percentage point on the figure for the previous week and the Tories are down one point, there is still an eight-point gap, on average, between the two.Could Reform UK get more MPs than the Tories?Unless something remarkable happens, in short: 'No' - and that's because of the first past the post (FPTP) voting system in which the candidate with the largest number of votes in their constituency is elected.According to the Electoral Reform Society, which is against FPTP, this system leads to a situation where “even if millions of voters support the same party, if they are thinly spread out across the UK they may only get the largest number of votes in a couple of these contests – so only win a few MPs"".“Tens of thousands of voters supporting a different party, but who live near each other, could end up with more MPs. This means the number of MPs a party has in parliament rarely matches their popularity with the public.”Rishi Sunak on the campaign trail on Wednesday. (AFP via Getty Images)Farage knows this well. As the leader of UKIP in the 2015 election, he saw his party win 12.6% of the nationwide vote and one seat. The Liberal Democrats won 7.9% of the vote... and eight seats.Indeed, YouGov last week released a poll – put together using the multi-level regression and post-stratification (MRP) surveying technique, from a sample size of nearly 60,000 respondents – which suggested the Tories would win just 140 seats, having won 365 in 2019. But this is still 140 more than the zero it projected Reform UK to win, in spite of its strong polling figures.The model had Reform UK ""performing strongly in a number of seats but still a long way off winning in any"", with projected second-placed finishes in 27 constituencies.YouGov's MRP projection. (YouGov)Granted, this model was formed between 24 May and 1 June, before Farage's headline-grabbing intervention on Monday last week in which he announced he would be standing as an MP.But, even as Reform UK polls closer than ever to the Tories, it's difficult to imagine the party winning more than a handful of seats.Chris Hopkins, director at polling firm Savanta, told Yahoo News UK that in one respect, Reform UK is at an advantage compared to Ukip in 2015 because ""Ukip took votes from both Labour and the Conservatives, and we are not seeing that with Reform UK – they are all coming from the Conservatives.""That is the consequence of Rishi Sunak making immigration a centrepiece of the campaign and failing to deliver on it. Even if you have voters that are neutral on immigration, they would say the small boats policy has been a disaster.""But even so, Hopkins said, Reform UK is still ""at a huge electoral disadvantage"" in that its votes are not very concentrated, they are very evenly spread.""There are going to be some races where Reform UK is strong - the Nigel Farage factor in Clacton is really interesting - but realistically its ceiling is five seats: and that’s a high ceiling.""Could the Lib Dems be the official opposition party?Liberal Democrat leader Sir Ed Davey on a campaign visit in Henley-in-Arden, Warwickshire, on Wednesday. (PA)Like Reform UK, Sir Ed Davey’s Liberal Democrats are performing well in the polls.In a sign of how defensive the Tory campaign is becoming, one online party advert claims voting for Reform UK or the Lib Dems could give Labour 100 extra seats, resulting in the biggest majority in its history.It depicts a scenario where the Conservatives are beaten into third place behind the Lib Dems, with just 57 seats, despite getting 19% of the vote and without Reform winning a single seat.Read more: Pollsters got it wrong in 2015, so could Labour’s lead be overestimated? (The Guardian)However, it remains unlikely the Lib Dems will finish second. YouGov’s MRP poll projected the party performing strongly, winning 48 seats. This would be up 37 from 2019, but still nowhere near the Tories’ projected 140.However, amid all this talk about projections, it’s worth remembering they are still only polls and not a definite indicator of how people will vote on 4 July. The 1992 and 2015 elections are notable examples of how polling didn’t match the end results of Tory wins.What is proportional representation?Proportional representation, as defined by the UK parliament, is an electoral system ""in which the distribution of seats corresponds closely with the proportion of the total votes cast for each party. For example, if a party gained 40% of the total votes, a perfectly proportional system would allow them to gain 40% of the seats.""This differs from the first past the post system, as set out above, in that a relatively high vote share rarely corresponds with increased seats for the smaller parties. In 2019, for example, the Lib Dems won 11.5% of the vote but only 1.7% – 11 – of the 650 seats.Unsurprisingly, both Reform UK and the Lib Dems support proportional representation.The Lib Dems this week made it part of their manifesto, with the party saying it would introduce the single transferrable vote method, a form of proportional representation which allows electors to rank their preference of candidates on the ballot.The party previously sought to change the UK’s voting system while in the coalition government under then-leader Nick Clegg, but voters rejected the plan in a 2011 referendum.Keir Starmer profile: The toolmakers' son vowing to 'rebuild Britain'Rishi Sunak profile: The PM battling to stay in power of election gambleHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhich MPs are standing down before the next election? Full list mappedThe key issues that will decide the electionWhen is the first UK general election TV debate?What is purdah? The strict rule that governs what politicians can and can't say"
HuffPost UK,"Cabinet Minister Who Bet On Election Date Did Nothing Wrong, Says Mel Stride",[],Kevin Schofield,26 June 2024 at 2:48 am·2-min read,26,June,2024,02:48:00,2,"Mel Stride (second from left) has defended Alister Jack (second from right). STEFAN ROUSSEAU via Getty ImagesA Tory minister who placed bets on the date of the general election did nothing wrong, one of his cabinet colleagues has insisted.Scottish Secretary Alister Jack has admitted he laid three wagers, but only one of them came up.He was forced to issue a statement after the BBC reported that he had told them he won £2,100 on the July poll - a claim he later said was “a joke”.In a statement, Jack said: “I placed two unsuccessful bets on the date of the general election and one successful one. I put two bets on in March of £5 each for an election to be held in May and June respectively. In April, I put £20 at 5 to 1 on an election being held between July and September.“I had no knowledge of the date of the election until the day it was called.”The revelation came just hours after the Conservatives ditched two candidates under investigation from the Gambling Commission over claims they also bet on the election date.Meanwhile, Labour has withdrawn its support for one of its candidates after it emerged he is being investigated for placing a bet on himself to lose.On Sky News this morning, work and pensions secretary Mel Stride said it was important to draw a distinctions between the actions of Alister Jack and the other Conservatives being probed.Presenter Wilfred Frost said: “I just wonder whether any politician should be placing a bet on something that they do broadly have influence over, or certainly comes into their sphere of influence, in the same way that footballers are banned from placing bets even on a fixture that their team isn’t involved in.“Is that where we should end up, that politicians should not bet at all on politics?”Stride replied: “I think you are totally right to identify that there are different circumstances around different people.“You’ve got a Labour candidate for example who was actually placing bets against himself on the basis that he would lose the election that he’s fighting, which is pretty extraordinary.“Alister Jack is a completely different circumstance and it appears that no wrongdoing has occurred in his case.”BBC’s Newsnight programme last night reported that the Gambling Commission is investigating 15 Tory candidates and officials over betting on the election date.Rishi Sunak has said anyone found guilty of doing so will be kicked out of the Tory Party.Related...A Tory Candidate At The Centre Of A Betting Scandal Has Begged Voters To Stand By HimCabinet Minister Admits Placing Bets On The Date Of The ElectionA Minister Has Criticised Rishi Sunak's Handling Of The Tory Betting Scandal"
The Guardian,"Make this the last inaccessible election for blind people in UK, campaigners demand",[],Matthew Weaver,26 June 2024 at 0:00 am·3-min read,26,June,2024,00:00:00,3,"Tens of thousand of people with sight loss will be denied their right to a secret ballot at next week’s general election, campaigners have warned, prompting calls to make it the last inaccessible election.The Royal National Institute of Blind People (RNIB) is calling on all political parties to commit to remove barriers that prevent blind people voting on their own and without help in future elections.It estimates that 160,000 people in the UK of voting age with severe sight loss will struggle to vote independently because of the lack adjustments made at polling stations.At the last general election, research for the RNIB found that only 13% of blind people felt they could vote independently and in secret.In a 2019 court judgment, the voting arrangements for blind and partially sighted people were declared unlawful and a “parody of the electoral process”.In polling stations, blind and partially sighted people are still only legally entitled to a selector – a plastic overlay on voting papers featuring braille numbers to help identify candidates. It involves being accompanied into the voting booth and having voting choices read out.More sophisticated audio readers, which do allow secret voting, are available only to those who request them in advance.The RNIB chair of trustees, Anna Tylor, has written an open letter to the next government warning that she, and tens of thousands of other blind and partially sighted people, are being robbed of the “right to a secret vote”. Citing the report on the 2019 election, she said: “Some reported having to tell someone how they wanted to vote, and heard others scoff at their choice; others had their selection audibly pointed out for everyone to hear.”She added: “This must be the last election where people with sight loss are so disenfranchised.”Jemma Brown, 35, who plans to vote next week in the Southampton Itchen constituency, said: “I do feel my right to a secret vote is treated as less important than everyone else’s. I am always relying on another person, so I do take a deep breath when I walk into my polling station.“Almost every time we have an election, I have train the staff myself to be able to cast my vote.”Speaking to the Guardian, she recalled that at a recent election for a police and crime commissioner the officer helping her skipped the name of one candidate. She said: “It meant I voted for the wrong person and had to cross it out. I have no idea whether that vote will have counted.”Brown added: “The system is so archaic. It’s 2024 and the best we can offer blind and visually impaired people is a sheet of plastic that someone else has to stick on their voting cards.”"
Yahoo News UK,"Who is Keir Starmer? The man tipped as next PM vows to 'rebuild Britain'Everything you need to know about the man who, on current poll ratings, is set to be the UK’s next prime minister","['His early life', 'His family', 'His parents', 'His education', 'Why is he a sir?', 'Starmer on... the NHS', 'Starmer on… immigration', 'Starmer on... the cost of living crisis', 'Starmer on... private schools', 'Starmer on… the House of Lords']",Hannah Fearn,Updated 23 May 2024 at 6:59 am·7-min read,23,May,2024,06:59:00,7,"The son of a toolmaker and the first of his family to go to university, Sir Keir Starmer is the most working class Labour Party leader in a generation.Yet when focus groups are asked what they think his favourite drink is, they guess that he’s partial to a gin and tonic rather than a pint down the local boozer. Many also assume his title is hereditary.So what do you really need to know about the man who, on current poll ratings, is set to be the UK’s next prime minister?His early lifeKeir Starmer was born in Southwark, south London, in 1962, as the second of four children. His parents were Labour Party members and named him after Keir Hardie, the party’s first leader in parliament.The family moved out of the capital and he grew up in Hurst Green, a village just outside the small Surrey town of Oxted. He was active in youth politics from his teenage years but was also a skilled musician, taking music lessons alongside Norman Cook, who later became better known as a member of The Housemartins and the DJ Fatboy Slim.Starmer played the flute, piano, violin and recorder and was a junior exhibitioner at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama.His familyStarmer is married to Victoria, a former solicitor who later retrained in occupational health and now works for the NHS. The pair met through their work in the law in the early 2000s and married in Essex in 2007.She was first seen accompanying her husband when the couple were filmed clapping for carers during the pandemic in 2020 outside their home in Camden. They have two children, a son and daughter, but both are kept out of the public eye.Victoria's father was Jewish and originally came from Poland, while her mother converted when they got married. Starmer has said in a previous interview that ""my wife in particular wants our children to know the faith of her family"" and that they ""observe some of the practices, for example Friday night prayers"".Keir Starmer with parents, Rodney and Josephine, at his graduation. (Twitter/Keir Starmer)His parentsThe Labour leader's father, Rodney Starmer, worked as a toolmaker in a factory, and his mother Josephine Starmer (née Baker), was a nurse.His father worked long, 14-hour days but spent his time outside work caring for Josephine, who was diagnosed with the autoimmune condition Still’s disease. She required two hip and knee replacements twice in her lifetime and struggled with arthritic pain.As a young man Starmer also helped care for his mother, which he has said led to him being more emotionally reserved. His sister, Katy, recalled: “He’s had to be a grown-up all his life. I’ve always been quite open about my feelings – Keir is good at most things, but not that.” Josephine Starmer died in 2015, and his father three years later.His educationStarmer passed the 11-plus examination, and attended Reigate Grammar School from age 11. While he was at the school it became an independent fee-paying institution, but as an existing student he was exempt from fees, and his tuition in the sixth form was covered by a bursary.After school he studied law at the University of Leeds, this first in his family to attend university, graduating with a first class degree in 1985. He undertook postgraduate law studied at the University of Oxford, where he served as editor of a radical magazine, Socialist Alternatives.A photograph of a younger Starmer as shown on ITV's Piers Morgan's Life Stories in 2021. (ITV)Why is he a sir?Stamer was appointed a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in 2014 in recognition of his work in the legal profession, culminating in a five-year term as Director of Public Prosecutions.He first became a barrister in 1987 at the Middle Temple, later joining Doughty Street Chambers and was appointed a Queen’s Counsel in 2002, aged just 39. In 2008 he was appointed head of the Crown Prosecution Service and DPP.During his tenure he chose to prosecute three Labour MPs and a Conservative in the wake of the parliamentary expenses scandal, and was responsible for prosecuting former MP Chris Huhne and his ex-wife Vicky Pryce for perverting the course of justice after Pryce claimed responsibility for her former husband’s speeding offence.Starmer on... the NHSThe Labour leader has said that, if elected, his government would “get the NHS working around the clock and pay staff properly to do it”.The remark followed a commitment to provide £1.1bn in funding for the health service to cut waiting lists by paying doctors and nurses to carry out additional out-of-hours care, which would be funded by axing tax breaks for wealthy “non-doms” who hoard money overseas. He added: “The Conservative Party that brought our NHS to its knees will put it in the ground. We have to get it back on its feet.”Starmer describes the NHS as “the crowdfunded solution for all of us”, reinforcing his commitment to healthcare being free at the point of use, but says reform is inevitable or the health service would “remain on life support”. He has pledged to integrate up-to-date technology into every part of the NHS including using artificial intelligence to diagnose disease earlier and more accurately.He supported the doctors strikes, telling ministers: “Don’t break junior doctors, talk to them. Get in the room [and] sort it out.”Starmer with his wife, Lady Victoria Starmer, at the Labour Party Conference in October 2023. (Alamy)Starmer on… immigrationThe government has “lost control of borders”, according to Labour. Starmer has said a Labour government would set up a new policy unit to tackle illegal migration and has suggested that a returns agreement for asylum seekers could be negotiated with the European Union to solve the small boats crisis.He described the government’s thwarted Rwanda plan, which would see illegal migrants deported to the African nation but has to be put into practice due to legal blocks, as a “gimmick” and a “farce” and has promised to reverse it.Starmer on... the cost of living crisisStarmer has sought to keep Rishi Sunak’s handling of the cost of living crisis in the minds of voters by claiming that “his fingerprints are all over their struggling household budgets”. In a letter to his shadow cabinet, leaked to The Guardian, he wrote: “Rishi Sunak is the chief architect of choices prioritising the wealthiest and of the government’s failure to get a grip of the economy and get growth going.”He has said he would prioritise tackling inflation, blaming it for putting up prices and eroding household savings, but has pledged to “take the difficult and responsible decisions” to bring it down.Starmer pictured in 2010, when he was director of public prosecution at the CPS, making a statement about MPs who face charges over their expenses claims. (Getty)Starmer on... private schoolsLabour has dropped its early promise to scrap charitable status for private schools, but has committed to levying a 20% VAT rate on school fees removing their “unfair tax break”. The money raised, he said, will be used to address the “appalling state” of the school system for all children.“It’s not an attack on private schools. It’s just saying an exemption you have had is going to go,” he warned private schools who have been critical of the plan – reminding them they are not obliged to pass that tax on to parents in the form of increased fees.Starmer on… the House of LordsWhen he was first Labour leader, Starmer proposed a “root and branch reform of the centre of government… rooting out unearned privilege and addressing unaccountable power”.But his promise to scrap the House of Lords within the first four years of a new parliament - a controversial move that caused a split among his party’s grandees, has been abandoned.Starmer still backs plans for a second chamber “electoral legitimacy”, but as his party nears government he has stepped away from the most radical form of that pledge. He is now reportedly committed to cutting the number of hereditary peers, reducing the size of the chamber and introducing a new appointments process."
The Telegraph,What time will we get the general election results?,"['When will election results be announced?', 'What are some of the key results to watch out for?', 'When was the 2019 election result called?', 'What happens when results start being called?', 'When is the general election?', 'Hour-by-hour timetable of the night', 'Thursday, 10pm', '11pm', '12am ', 'Friday, 1am', '2am', '3am', '4am', '5am', '6am']",Dominic Penna,26 June 2024 at 1:29 am·18-min read,26,June,2024,01:29:00,18,"When polls close on July 4 after a six-week campaign, Rishi Sunak and Sir Keir Starmer will eagerly await results from the UK’s 650 constituencies to find out who will become the next prime minister.The exit poll at 10pm will give the Prime Minister and the Labour leader a snapshot of what to expect nationally, before the first results start to trickle in across the following hours.Opinion polls in recent weeks have suggested the Conservatives are on track to win as few as 53 seats, although other surveys suggest they could win around 150. Labour is currently projected to win a landslide, with some polls suggesting Sir Keir could achieve a greater victory margin than Sir Tony Blair.A recent Telegraph poll predicted Mr Sunak could become the first ever Prime Minister to lose his seat at a general election.Read the latest election pollsFollow The Telegraph’s general election live coverageHere is everything you need to know about the election night timings.When will election results be announced?Results from the 2024 general election will begin to trickle in from around 11.30pm on Thursday July 4 after polling stations close at 10pm.Most of the constituency results are expected in the early hours of Friday, July 5 as hundreds are announced across the country, with the final seats projected to announce their winning candidates by 6.30am.In 2019, the first declaration came at 11.27pm when Newcastle City Council beat local rival Sunderland to announce Labour’s candidate Chi Onwurah as the first MP of the new parliament.The record for the earliest declaration remains 10.43pm by the former seat of Sunderland South in 2001.Use our tool below to find out when your constituency is expected to declare:What are some of the key results to watch out for?All eyes will be on Richmond and Northallerton at around 4am when Rishi Sunak, the Prime Minister, will find out whether he has kept his seat, amid some predictions that he could be ousted by his constituents in what would be a historic defeat for an incumbent of Downing Street.The result in Holborn and St Pancras, the constituency of Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer, is expected 15 minutes later.A host of top Tories will learn throughout the night whether they have won re-election, including Sir Jacob Rees-Mogg (around 4.30am), Grant Shapps, the Defence Secretary (around 3.30am) and Jeremy Hunt, the Chancellor (around 3.30am). Mr Hunt has predicted there will be fewer than 1,500 votes between him and the Liberal Democrat hopeful.Nigel Farage, the Reform leader, will learn at around 4am whether he has succeeded at the eighth time in trying in winning a seat in the Commons.An hour earlier, Jeremy Corbyn, the former Labour leader, is set to find out whether he will beat his old party and retain his seat in Islington North, where he is standing as an independent candidate.When was the 2019 election result called?Boris Johnson won a landslide victory for the Tories in 2019 after selling the public on his mandate to “get Brexit done”.The first exit poll came back as Big Ben struck 10pm and polling stations closed nationwide, while Mr Johnson’s overall majority was confirmed at 5am.By 7am, it became clear the Tories were on course for their biggest majority at Westminster since that of Margaret Thatcher.What happens when results start being called?When voting closes, an exit poll will be announced following a survey of voters taken from about 150 constituencies in England, Scotland and Wales, giving an indication of the likely result.However, leaders will have to wait until one party receives enough votes for a majority under the first-past-the-post electoral system.In 2019, Mr Johnson’s majority was announced at 5am, although it was not until every constituency had called its results that the extent of his landslide victory with a 43 per cent vote share emerged.When is the general election?The UK will head to the polls on Thursday July 4 to vote on the country’s next leader, with polling stations open between 7am and 10pm.The Prime Minister announced the snap summer election in a rain-sodden speech outside Downing Street on May 22, setting in motion the vote six weeks later.Registration for the general election has now closed and it is too late to apply for a postal vote. However, those eligible can still use a proxy ballot to have someone vote on their behalf.Hour-by-hour timetable of the nightThursday, 10pmIt’s exit poll o’clock at 10pm, as a nationwide projection offers a unique window on the outcome.The 10pm ballot has an impressive track record and gives a pretty good indication of what the final result will be.11pmBlyth and Ashington, a new constituency where veteran Labour MP Ian Lavery is seeking re-election, is expected to be the first constituency to declare at this election, with an estimated time of 11.30pm. Shortly after will be the seat of Houghton and Sunderland South, represented for the past 14 years by shadow education secretary Bridget Phillipson.23:30 Blyth and Ashington23:45 Houghton and Sunderland South12am There is the potential for an early shock as Richard Holden, the Conservative Party chairman, finds out whether he has done enough to win his new seat of Basildon and Billericay. Mr Holden was selected as the Tory candidate for what has traditionally been a safe seat in a one-man shortlist, prompting local activists to brand the process a “stitch-up”.00:15 Basildon and Billericay and Broxbourne00:30 Sunderland Central and Swindon South00:45 Sunderland Central and Washington and Gateshead SouthFriday, 1amThe first results from Scotland will provide an early indication as to how the SNP may fare following a difficult couple of years for the Scottish nationalist party, which has seen it change First Minister twice and tank in the polls.01:00 Makerfield, Rutherglen, Tynemouth and Wigan01:15 Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West, Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend and Newcastle upon Tyne North01:30 Barnsley North and Barnsley South01:30 East Kilbride and Strathaven, Leigh and Atherton, Putney and Tooting01:45 Hamilton and Clyde Valley, Harrogate and Knaresborough, Leicester South and North Swindon2amDeclarations will start to come in thick and fast at this point. Seats up for grabs include North West Essex which is currently represented by Kemi Badenoch, the Business Secretary and the bookmakers’ favourite to succeed Rishi Sunak as Tory leader.The results in Burnley, which returned a Conservative MP for the first time in 109 years in 2019, and Redcar, which elected its first ever Tory last time out, will provide an indication of how Mr Sunak’s party is faring in the ‘Red Wall’ seats that were so crucial to Boris Johnson’s triumph.Another constituency to watch is Rochdale, where Workers’ Party candidate George Galloway shocked Westminster by winning a by-election in February with a campaign heavily focused on Gaza. Labour, however, is hopeful that it can win the seat back.02:00 North West Cambridgeshire, Cannock Chase, Castle Point, Darlington, Dunbartonshire West, Dundee Central, North West Essex, Gateshead Central and Whickham, Glenrothes and Mid Fife, Havant, Hexham, Leicester East, Lewisham East, Lewisham West and East Dulwich, Middlesbrough and Thornaby East, Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland, North Down, Peterborough, Redcar, South Shields, Strangford, Swansea West, Torbay, Tyrone West, Vale of Glamorgan, North Warwickshire and Bedworth02:15 Gower, Knowsley, Leicester West, Paisley and Renfrewshire South, Rayleigh and Wickford02:30 Arbroath and Broughty Ferry, Battersea, Blackburn, Caerphilly, Chorley, Clwyd North, Colchester, North Durham, Easington, Heywood and Middleton North, Jarrow and Gateshead East, Kilmarnock and Loudoun, Lewisham North. Newport West and Islwyn, Norwich South, Nottingham East, Nottingham South, Pendle & Clitheroe, Perth & Kinross-shire, Rochdale, Stratford-on-Avon02:45: Aldershot, Bolsover, Burnley, Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard, Folkestone and Hythe, North East Hampshire, Hertsmere, Mid Bedfordshire, Paisley and Renfrewshire North, Sussex Weald3amThe excitement will really ramp up at this point, with no fewer than 241 declarations expected across almost four in 10 constituencies and there is plenty to watch out for.A host of Tory ‘big beasts’ will find out whether they have done enough to keep their seats including Jeremy Hunt, the Chancellor, who is standing in the new constituency of Godalming and Ash. He faces a challenge from the Liberal DemocratsCabinet ministers Gillian Keegan, Claire Coutinho, Alex Chalk, Simon Hart and Penny Mordaunt will also find out whether they have done enough to win re-election. Ms Mordaunt, the Leader of the Commons, is touted as a potential future Tory leader but faces a tight battle in her Portsmouth North constituency.Other top Tories whose results we can expect around this time include former leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith and Robert Jenrick, a former immigration minister.While Labour is projected to perform well nationally, its shadow culture secretary Thangam Debbonaire faces a tense moment as the Greens seek to deliver an upset in her Bristol Central constituency.Speaking of upsets, former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn will find out how he has fared against his old party as he stands as an independent in Islington North. And Sir Ed Davey, the Liberal Democrat leader, will learn how he has performed in Kingston and Surbiton.03:00: Aberdeen North, Aberdeen South, Airdrie and Shotts, Alloa and Grangemouth, Alyn and Deeside, Amber Valley, Antrim East, Bangor Aberconwy, Belfast East, Belfast North, Belfast West, Bexhill and Battle, Blackpool South, Bolton North East, Bolton South and Walkden, Bolton West, Bootle, Bracknell, Brent East, Brent West, Canterbury, Carlisle, Chelsea and Fulham, Cheltenham, Chester North and Neston, Chingford and Woodford Green, Corby and East Northamptonshire, Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy, Crawley, Droitwich and Evesham, Dudley, Dwyfor Meirionnydd, Eastleigh, Edmonton and Winchmore Hill, Ellesmere Port and Bromborough, Enfield North, Epping Forest, Epsom and Ewell, Erewash, Fareham and Waterlooville, Fife North East, Forest of Dean, Fylde, Glasgow North, Gloucester, Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes, Great Yarmouth, Halesowen, Hamble Valley, Hammersmith and Chiswick, Harlow, Hinckley and Bosworth, Hull East, Huntingdon, Ipswich, Isle of Wight East, Isle of Wight West, Islington North, Islington South and Finsbury, Leyton & Wanstead, Lichfield, Londonderry East, Luton South and South Bedfordshire, Mansfield, Meriden and Solihull East, Mid Cheshire, Mid Ulster, Midlothian, Mitcham and Morden, Na h-Eileanan an Iar, Newark, Newport East, Nuneaton, Oxford East, Pontypridd, Reading, Central, Rhondda and Ogmore, Romford, Romsey and Southampton North, Runcorn and Helsby, Rushcliffe, Sefton Central, Shrewsbury, Smethwick, Solihull West and Shirley, South Ribble, Southend East and Rochford, Southend West and Leigh, Southgate and Wood Green, St Helens North, St Helens South and Whiston, Stevenage, Stockton West, Stourbridge, Telford, Thanet East, The Wrekin, Tipton and Wednesbury, Torfaen,Walthamstow, Watford, West Bromwich, Whitehaven and Workington, Widnes and Halewood, Worcester, Wrexham, Ynys Mon03:15: Bristol Central, Caerfyrddin, Eltham and Chislehurst, Erith and Thamesmead, Gosport, Hayes and HarlingtonKingston and Surbiton, Llanelli, Merthyr Tydfil and Aberdare, Northumberland North, Renfrewshire East, Scunthorpe, Stroud, Witney03:30: Aldridge-Brownhills, South Antrim, Ayr, Carrick and Cumnock, North Ayrshire and Arran, Bedford, Belfast, South and Mid Down, Berwickshire, Roxburgh and Selkirk, Bethnal Green and Stepney, Bexleyheath and Crayford, Birmingham Edgbaston, Birmingham Erdington, Bristol East, Bristol South, Burton and Uttoxeter, Bury North, Bury, St Edmunds and Stowmarket, Chesterfield, Chichester, Cities of London and Westminster, City of Durham, Coatbridge and Bellshill, Coventry East, Coventry North West, Coventry South, Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch, South Derbyshire, South Devon, Dover and Deal, Dumfries and Galloway, Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale, Ealing Central and Acton, Ealing North, Ealing Southall, East Surrey, Esher and Walton, Exeter, Frome and East Somerset, Gainsborough, Gedling, Glasgow East, Godalming and Ash, Harrow East, Harrow West, Hartlepool, High Peak, Hull North and Cottingham, Hull West and Haltemprice, Hyndburn, Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West, Lancaster and Wyre, Leeds Central and Headingley, Leeds East, Leeds North East, Leeds North West, Leeds South, Leeds South West and Morley, Leeds West and Pudsey, Leicestershire North West, Liverpool Garston, Liverpool Riverside, Liverpool Walton, Liverpool Wavertree, Liverpool West Derby, Louth and Horncastle, Lowestoft, Luton North, Mid Dunbartonshire, New Forest East, Newton Abbot, Norfolk Mid, Nottingham North and Kimberley, Old Bexley and Sidcup, Oldham East and Saddleworth, Oldham West, Chadderton and Royton, Penrith and Solway, Portsmouth North, Portsmouth South, Preston, Queen’s Park and Maida Vale, Rawmarsh and Conisbrough, Reigate, Rother Valley, Rotherham, Scarborough and Whitby, Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough, Sheffield South East, Sleaford and North Hykeham, Slough, South Down, South Holland and The Deepings, Stafford, Staffordshire, Moorlands, Stirling and Strathallan, Suffolk Coastal, Sutton Coldfield, Tatton, Walsall and Bloxwich, Wells and, Mendip Hills, Welwyn Hatfield, Wolverhampton North East, Wolverhampton South East, Wolverhampton West, Worcestershire West, Wyre Forest03:45: Birmingham Hall Green and Moseley, Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North, Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven, Bristol North East, Bristol North West, Bromsgrove, Carshalton and Wallington, Glasgow South West, Glasgow West, Grantham and Bourne, Redditch, Ribble Valley, Ruislip, Northwood and Pinner, Sutton and Cheam, Tamworth, Wimbledon4amCould we be in for the mother of all political upsets? In this next hour, the result for Rishi Sunak’s Richmond and Northallerton constituency is expected. A shock constituency-level poll for The Telegraph suggested he could become the first ever sitting Prime Minister to lose their seat at a general election, so all eyes will be on the count.Fifteen minutes later, Sir Keir Starmer, the Labour leader, will find out how he has fared in Holborn and St Pancras, although his re-election in a safe Labour seat is expected to be more of a formality.The surge of Reform UK has been one of the major stories of this election. Party leader Nigel Farage will hope he has won a seat in the Commons at the eighth time of trying as the result comes in for Clacton, while Richard Tice, the Reform chairman, is hoping to unseat former Tory minister Matt Warman by the seaside in Boston and Skegness.Reform’s only current MP is Lee Anderson, a former deputy Tory chairman who crossed the floor in March following his suspension. He is hoping the former mining town of Ashfield, which traditionally opted for Labour but went Tory in 2019, will stick with him after his change of allegiances, as many Labour-turned-Tory voters now consider Reform.Shabana Mahmood and Jess Phillips, two Labour MPs in Birmingham, have faced a backlash from their voters over the party’s stance on Gaza, and the results in those constituencies will reveal how independent pro-Palestinian candidates have fared.How the Liberal Democrats have fared will be increasingly obvious from the results in North East Somerset and Hanham, currently held by Sir Jacob Rees-Mogg, and Surrey Heath, which was Michael Gove’s seat before the Housing Secretary stood down shortly after Mr Sunak called the election.04:00: Aberafan Maesteg, Altrincham and Sale West, Aylesbury, Ayrshire Central, Barking, Barrow and Furness, South Basildon and East Thurrock, Basingstoke, Bassetlaw, Bath, Bathgate and Linlithgow, Beckenham and Penge, North Bedfordshire, Bermondsey and Old Southwark, Beverley and Holderness, Birkenhead, Birmingham Ladywood, Birmingham Northfield, Bishop Auckland, Blackpool North and Fleetwood, Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney, Blaydon and Consett, Bognor Regis and Littlehampton, Boston and Skegness, Braintree, Brecon, Radnor and Cwm Tawe, Bridgend, Bridlington and the Wolds, Brigg and Immingham, Broadland and Fakenham, Buckinghamshire Mid, Bury South, Cambridge, South Cambridgeshire, Cardiff East, Cardiff South and Penarth, Central Devon, Ceredigion PreseliChelmsford, Chester South and Eddisbury, Chippenham, Clacton, Clwyd East, North Cotswolds, South Cotswolds, Dagenham and Rainham, Dartford, Devon North, Dunfermline and Dollar, East Grinstead and Uckfield, Eastbourne, Falkirk, Fermanagh and South Tyrone, Foyle, Glasgow North East, Glasgow South, Glastonbury and Somerton, Goole and Pocklington, Greenwich and Woolwich, Guildford, Hampshire East, Hampshire North West, Harborough, Oadby and Wigston, Harpenden and Berkhamsted, Harwich and North Essex, Hertford and Stortford, Hornchurch and Upminster, Hornsey and Friern Barnet, Kenilworth and Southam, Kettering, Lancashire West, Lothian East, Macclesfield, Melksham and Devizes, Mid Sussex, Moray West, Nairn and Strathspey, Morecambe and Lunesdale, Motherwell, Wishaw and Carluke, New Forest West, Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor, North Norfolk, South Norfolk, Norwich North, Peckham, Mid and South Pembrokeshire, Penistone and Stocksbridge, Richmond and Northallerton, Richmond Park, Rossendale and Darwen, Rugby, Salisbury, Sevenoaks, Sheffield Central, Sheffield Heeley, Sherwood Forest, Sittingbourne and Sheppey, St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire, Stockport, Stockton NorthStone, Great Wyrley and Penkridge, Stretford and Urmston, Suffolk Central and North Ipswich, Suffolk South, Suffolk West, Thurrock, Tottenham, Twickenham, Upper Bann, Wakefield and Rothwell, Wallasey, Warwick and Leamington, Waveney Valley, Wellingborough and Rushden, Westmorland and Lonsdale, East WiltshireSouth West Wiltshire, Wirral West, Witham, Woking, Yeovil, York Central, York Outer04:15: Birmingham Perry Barr, Birmingham Selly Oak, Clapham and Brixton Hill, Dorking and Horley, Dulwich and West Norwood, Feltham and Heston, Holborn and St Pancras, Kingswinford and South Staffordshire, South Shropshire, Streatham and Croydon North, Uxbridge and South Ruislip, Vauxhall and Camberwell Green04:30: Antrim North, Ashfield, Ashford, Birmingham Yardley, Blackley and Middleton South, Bournemouth East, Bournemouth West, Bradford West, Brentford and Isleworth, Brentwood and Ongar, Bridgwater, Brighton Pavilion, Cambridgeshire North East, Cardiff North, Christchurch, Crewe and Nantwich, Derby North, Derby South, Derbyshire Dales, Derbyshire North East, Dorset South, Edinburgh East and Musselburgh, Edinburgh North and Leith, Edinburgh South, Edinburgh South West, Edinburgh West, Faversham and Mid Kent, Gorton and Denton, Gravesham, Hampstead and Highgate, Kensington and Bayswater, Lagan Valley, South Leicestershire, Lincoln, Livingston, Maidstone and Malling, Manchester Central, Manchester Rusholme, Manchester Withington, Milton Keynes Central, Milton Keynes North, Monmouthshire, Montgomeryshire and Glyndwr, Neath and Swansea East, Newry and Armagh, North West Norfolk, Normanton and Hemsworth, Pontefract, Castleford and Knottingley, Poole, Poplar and Limehouse, Reading West and Mid Berkshire, Runnymede and Weybridge, North Shropshire, Skipton and Ripon, North East Somerset and Hanham, Southport, Surrey Heath, Taunton and Wellington, Tunbridge Wells, Weald of Kent, Worthing East and Shoreham, Worthing West, Wythenshawe and Sale East04:45: Aberdeenshire North and Moray East, Cardiff West, Hove and Portslade, Rutland and Stamford, Tiverton and Minehead5amThe overall national result should become very clear by this point but there is still scope for surprises.After an ill-tempered battle with fellow veteran Luke Thomas, the Labour candidate, veterans’ minister Johnny Mercer will learn whether he still has the support of his constituents in Plymouth Moor View.And South West Norfolk has traditionally been among the safest Tory seats but it remains to be seen whether Liz Truss, the former prime minister, will be able to weather the storm.05:00: Aberdeenshire West and Kincardine, Banbury, Bicester and Woodstock, Bradford East, Bromley and Biggin Hill, Broxtowe, Buckingham and Bletchley, Calder Valley, Camborne and Redruth, Cheadle, Congleton, North, Cornwall, South East Cornwall, Daventry, Doncaster Central, Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme, Doncaster North, North Dorset, Earley and Woodley, Ely and East Cambridgeshire, Exmouth and Exeter East, Filton and Bradley Stoke, Gillingham and Rainham, Hackney North and Stoke Newington, Hackney South and Shoreditch, Halifax, Hastings and Rye, Hemel Hempstead, Hereford and South Herefordshire, North Herefordshire, North East Hertfordshire, South West Hertfordshire, Hitchin, Honiton and Sidmouth, Inverness, Skye and West Ross-shire, Keighley and Ilkley, Lewes, Maidenhead, Maldon, Melton and Syston, Mid Dorset and North Poole, Newbury, Newcastle-under-Lyme, Northampton North, Northampton South, Orpington, Ossett and Denby Dale, Rochester and Strood, Salford, Sheffield Hallam, Shipley, North Somerset, Southampton Itchen, Southampton Test, Spelthorne, St Albans, St Austell and Newquay, St Ives, Stoke-on-Trent Central, Stoke-on-Trent North, Stoke-on-Trent South, Tewkesbury, Thornbury and Yate, Truro and Falmouth, Warrington North, Warrington South, Weston-super-Mare, Winchester, Windsor, Worsley and Eccles05:15: Gordon and Buchan, Plymouth Moor View05:30: Angus and Perthshire Glens, Arundel and South Downs, Ashton-under-Lyne, Bradford South, Caithness, Sutherland and Easter Ross, Chipping Barnet, Derbyshire Mid, Dewsbury and Batley, Didcot and Wantage, Dorset West, East Ham, Finchley and Golders Green, Hazel Grove, Hendon, Herne Bay and Sandwich, Horsham, Mid Leicestershire, Loughborough, South West Norfolk, Orkney and Shetland, Plymouth Sutton and Devonport, Stalybridge and Hyde, Stratford and Bow, Tonbridge, West Ham and Beckton05:45: Selby, Spen Valley, Wetherby and Easingwold6amIt is estimated that the final results will pour in between 6am and 7am as dawn breaks over Britain.The Liberal Democrats have the potential to pull off a final upset in the true blue Tory heartland of Wokingham, which until this election was represented by Sir John Redwood, the head of the No 10 policy unit under Margaret Thatcher.One of the very last batch of declarations will be in Ilford North where Wes Streeting, the shadow health secretary, is standing for Labour.06:00: Beaconsfield, Chatham and Aylesford, Chesham and Amersham, Colne Valley, Croydon East, Croydon South, Croydon West, South West Devon, Henley and Thame, South Northamptonshire, Oxford West and Abingdon, Thirsk and Malton, Torridge and Tavistock, Wokingham, Wycombe06:15: Huddersfield06:30: Argyll, Bute and South Lochaber, Farnham and Bordon, Ilford North, Ilford South"
Evening Standard,Labour pledges to end 8am scramble for GP appointments by training more doctors and updating the NHS app,[],Robert Dex,25 June 2024 at 5:33 pm·2-min read,25,June,2024,05:33:00,2,"Labour has pledged to end the 8am scramble for GP appointments by training more doctors and updating the NHS app so slots are easy to book and rearrange.Under the party’s plans, family doctors, physiotherapists, mental health specialists, dentists, district nurses, care workers and health visitors would be brought under one roof as part of a trial of Neighbourhood Health Centres.Shadow health secretary Wes Streeting said his party is also committed to bringing back the family doctor, to give patients continuity.Mr Streeting said: “The Health Secretary is too busy preparing her Conservative Party leadership campaign to stop the strikes in the NHS, or even to tell us what her plan is to get patients a GP appointment.“Rishi Sunak doesn’t understand how bad things are in the NHS, nor does he have a plan for the NHS, because he doesn’t use the NHS. Rishi Sunak isn’t waiting a month for a GP appointment, so he doesn’t care that you are.Wes Streeting and Sir Keir Starmer in a hospital (Stefan Rousseau/PA) (PA Wire)“The public will rightly conclude that nothing will change if the Conservatives get another five years, the chaos in the NHS will continue, and millions of patients will be left waiting a month just to see a GP.“Labour will provide the investment and reform needed to get patients seen on time again and bring back the family doctor.“In 2024, patients should not have to queue up at 8am on the phone to book an appointment, or worse still queue around the block.“We will end the 8am scramble by allowing patients to easily book appointments to see the doctor they want, in the manner they choose. But that change will only happen if people vote for the NHS and vote Labour on 4th July.”According to the party’s analysis of the GP patient survey, five million tried and failed to get a GP appointment every month in 2023.The Conservative Party’s manifesto says it wants to build 100 new GP surgeries in England, funded by reducing the number of NHS managers.The issue of private healthcare has been raised several times during the General Election campaign after Sir Keir Starmer said he would not pay to go private if he or a loved one faced a long wait for NHS treatment, while Rishi Sunak said he would.Labour has previously said it would use the private sector to treat NHS patients in the short term to get waiting lists down."
Glasgow Times,'Better shops and public transport': East Kilbride people speak out ahead of election,[],Ann Fotheringham,26 June 2024 at 1:00 am·2-min read,26,June,2024,01:00:00,2,"MORE investment, cheaper public transport and better shops are some of the key issues East Kilbride people want their new MP to tackle.Environmental activist Maureen Potter, who has lived in the town since the 1960s, says the biggest issues concerning people in East Kilbride are “the cost of living, the NHS and housing, for many of our younger people trying to set up home for the first time.”(Image: Maureen Potter)She adds: “I hope our new MP will campaign for greater investment in public services, which should in turn increase the grant to devolved governments for the NHS, housing and other public services here.”University student Laura Young, 20, who has lived in East Kilbride her whole life, said: ""The biggest issue for young people is the state of public transport. Travelling to and from uni each day takes multiple hours by bus and costs a significant amount of money by train. The Young Scot rail discount ends at 18 and free bus travel at 22.(Image: Laura Young)""Also, the quality of high street shopping has declined in East Kilbride, so many shops have closed, so you have to travel outwith the town.""Laura added: ""I'd like my MP to improve local facilities and work with global and local businesses to create a more lively town centre in East Kilbride and other Scottish towns.""Historically Labour until SNP’s landslide election victory of 2015 won them 56 of 59 seats, the constituency of East Kilbride and Strathaven is facing an interesting election day.In a shock move last October, current MP Lisa Cameron – who was facing an SNP selection contest to remain as candidate for the constituency – defected to the Conservatives.(Image: Grant Costello)SNP candidate Grant Costello says his campaigning has revealed people want their MP to stand up against any “privatisation” of the NHS.He added: “Wes Streeting's NHS comments about ‘holding the door wide open to the private sector’ get mentioned a lot to me.“The cost of living crisis is always brought up, with people struggling with the rise in food prices and energy costs.”Grant, a former youth worker, represented East Kilbride as a teenager in the Scottish Youth Parliament.The former Duncanrig Secondary pupil believes the SNP can “absolutely win” on July 4.“People are really responding to our message here in East Kilbride and Strathaven about the need for local voices standing up for our communities and putting Scotland's interests first,” he says.“It is a direct fight between myself and the Labour candidate, who only moved to the constituency a few months ago after serving as a councillor in Lewisham.“I'm a local candidate, born and bred in the constituency.”The eight candidates standing in East Kilbride and Strathaven are Grant Costello (SNP), Ross Lambie (Conservative), Joani Reid (Labour), Donald MacKay (UKIP), Ann McGuinness (Scottish Greens), David Mills (Reform UK), Aisha Mir (Liberal Democrats), David Richardson (Scottish Family Party)."
Yahoo News UK,"Who is Richard Tice? Reform’s former leader turned Farage sidekickThe candidate for Hartlepool has seen his party's popularity swell in recent months, with one poll showing reform ahead of the Conservatives.",[],Andrew Naughtie,Updated 14 June 2024 at 6:45 am·6-min read,14,June,2024,06:45:00,6,"Now that Nigel Farage has taken over as the leader of Reform UK, Richard Tice’s public profile is fading fast - but the Reform chairman remains involved in the party's operations.So far, the party has only one MP, Conservative defector Lee Anderson. But a recent poll has shown Reform overtaking the Tories, raising the possibility Anderson could hold his seat and even end up with fellow Reformers in the next Parliament.As the candidate for Hartlepool, where he stood as the Brexit Party candidate in 2019, Tice hopes to be one of them. So who is he, and what does he stand for?Childhood and educationBorn in Surrey in 1964 to James Tice, a showjumper, and Joan Tice, a horse trainer. Educated at the private boarding school Uppingham, he studied at the University of Salford, gaining a degree in construction economics and quantity surveying – teeing him up for a career that he said would ""continue the family genes in the property industry"".Family (partner & kids)Tice has three children from a 24-year marriage that ended in divorce. He is now in a long-term relationship with the right-wing writer and journalist Isabel Oakeshott.She is perhaps best known for two notorious incidents that set her against leading Tories: a book that featured the heavily disputed allegation that David Cameron had engaged in sexual activity with a pig, and the release of embarrassing messages entrusted to her by Matt Hancock when she agreed to write a book with him.Keir Starmer profile: The toolmakers' son vowing to 'rebuild Britain'Rishi Sunak profile: The PM battling to stay in power of election gambleHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhich MPs are standing down before the next election? Full list mappedThe key issues that will decide the electionWhen is the first UK general election TV debate?What is purdah? The strict rule that governs what politicians can and can't sayNet worthWhile not quite in the same league as Rishi Sunak, Tice is one of the wealthiest people in British politics. As he describes it on his website, he made his multi-million-pound fortune over the course of “30 years of making things happen in property investment”, starting with a graduate job at a London firm in 1987.According to Tice, the company he leads as CEO, Quidnet Capital, has “bought and managed £500 million in commercial properties across the UK on behalf of clients”.He was also a key figure in the redevelopment of London’s Nine Elms district, near Battersea Power Station, a controversial project that has transformed a stretch of the Thames’s south bank with a welter of rapidly erected high-rise blocks.GB News linksAlong with Nigel Farage, Lee Anderson and several MPs on the right flank of the Tory party, Tice is a regular on the hard-right, culture war-focused TV outlet GB News. There he hosts a programme called “Richard Tice’s Sunday Sermon”, which serves as a platform for him to deliver his political analysis without the interruptions of an interviewer.However, despite the network being a relatively safe space for him in ideological terms, Tice’s appearances aren’t always amicable. A recent interview with host Andrew Pierce, a longtime right-wing commentator, saw him challenged fiercely about Reform’s chances in a summer election should one be called – with Pierce pointing to the “weirdos” selected by the party to fight numerous seats as evidence the party is “not ready”.Richard Tice, pictured in 2018 at a 'Leave Means Leave' campaign event, is focused on the issue of immigration. (Steve Finn/WENN)Tice was also involved in an incident that saw the network deemed in breach of broadcasting regulator Ofcom’s impartiality regulations, specifically an interview in which a former Brexit Party MEP failed to “sufficiently challenge” his views on immigration.The regulator is under increasing pressure to crack down on GB News heading into the election, with critics arguing it cannot be allowed to broadcast shows that feature Tory and Reform MPs interviewing each other without alternative points of view represented.Tice on NHSThe state and future of the NHS set to be one of this election’s main battlegrounds, and Reform’s key health policy is to spend £17 billion on the NHS on top of its current budget in an effort to get waiting lists down to zero. It also proposes introducing tax relief on private healthcare – something that has been criticised by opponents as a creeping step towards the privatisation of healthcare writ large.Tice’s stated rationale is that the reason the service is struggling is because the money it needs is being spent on other things that the public do not in fact support. Top of the list is Net Zero, which the party and its predecessors have long decried as a pointless “woke” project.In April, Tice used a press conference to frame the choice starkly. “We have a choice in this country, it seems to me,” he said. “A pretty clear choice. Do we want zero waiting lists in two years, and to keep them there? That is the Reform choice. Or do we want net zero CO2 emissions in 25 years? That is the Labour choice.”Tice on immigrationImmigration is by far Reform UK’s top issue, with the party looking to build on Farage’s two decades of campaigning against it in its legal and illegal forms.As far as the election goes, Tice and the party are targeting the continuing arrival of small boats of people travelling across the English Channel, many of them seeking asylum. He has criticised the government for failing to stop “mass immigration” post-Brexit, and described Rishi Sunak’s Rwanda policy as “a disaster”, arguing on GB News that its supposed deterrent value was revealed to be zero just hours after the House of Commons finally passed the law.Reform chairman Richard Tice (L) and leader Nigel Farage speak at the party's economic policy launch at Church House in London. (Alamy Live News)“Within a matter of hours more boats, absolutely packed full, overfilled with illegal migrants, were setting off from the beaches. And we learnt on Tuesday morning that sadly five people, including a young child, drowned leaving the beaches. That's not a deterrent. That's an absolute disaster.”Instead of deporting people to Rwanda, he is arguing for a “pick up and take back” policy that would see small boat arrivals deposited back on French soil. As evidence that this is both practical and humane, he has cited similar policies deployed in the US and Australia.However, he has not addressed the fact that Australia’s policy has been criticised internationally for leaving so-called “boat people” confined to facilities on the island of Nauru, where there have been incidents of suicide and self-immolation.Tice on cost of living crisisPerhaps unsurprisingly given he is trying to peel away former Tory voters, Tice has criticised recent Tory prime ministers harshly for overseeing Britain’s intense cost of living crisis. In 2022, he accused then-prime minister Boris Johnson of “waffling” over the situation. “Clueless, out of touch, no ideas, no help,” he tweeted. “Shocking.”He has also warned that the prospect of a “disastrous” Labour government will offer no prospect of meaningful relief for struggling households.Instead, Reform proposes lifting the minimum level of income tax to £20,000 while cutting various other taxes – among them fuel duty, another gesture to the party’s rejection of environmentalism as a top priority."
Yahoo News UK,"Confused by election jargon? The common words and phrases explainedCertain phrases such as the 'triple lock plus' have also become defining issues of the election, with the terms bandied about by politicians on both sides.","['Absentee ballot', 'Ballot box', 'Campaign', 'Canvassing', 'Capital gains tax', 'Child benefit', 'Coalition', 'Constituency', 'ECHR', 'Exit poll', 'First past the post', 'Hung parliament', 'Income tax threshold', 'Majority', 'Manifesto', 'Marginal seat', 'Net zero', 'Opinion poll', 'Poll', 'Postal vote', 'Proxy vote', 'Psephology', 'Polling day', 'Purdah', 'Spoiled ballot', 'Swing', 'Tax burden', 'The Equality Act', 'Triple lock', 'Triple lock plus', 'Turnout', 'VAT']",Rob Waugh,Updated 13 June 2024 at 9:43 am·7-min read,13,June,2024,09:43:00,7,"From 'purdah' to 'first past the post', every election in the UK is surrounded by specialist jargon that can leave some voters struggling to fully understand the conversation around them.In the 2024 election, certain phrases – such as the 'triple lock plus' – have also become defining issues, with the terms bandied about by politicians on both sides.Below, we've defined some of the most widely used and confusing terms around British elections (and the 2024 election in particular).Absentee ballotIf people can’t get to a polling station on election day, they can apply for an absent vote.There are two kinds: a postal vote, where a ballot is mailed in, and a proxy vote, where someone else votes for you.At the 2019 general election, 17.2% of voters across the UK used a postal ballot and 0.6% appointed a proxy.Ballot boxThe box where people put their voting slips. The term is also sometimes used to refer to the election itself, as in ‘they could not win at the ballot box’.CampaignThe time before an election in which politicians persuade people to vote for them. In the case of the 2024 election in the UK, parliament was dissolved on the 30 May and the election will take place on 4 July.CanvassingGoing round a particular area trying to persuade people to vote for one party or the other.In UK elections, this is often done by volunteers knocking on people’s doors.Capital gains taxCapital gains tax is a tax on profit when people sell assets that have increased in value.In the 2024 election, the Conservatives have promised that landlords who sell to sitting tenants will be spared capital gains tax on the proceeds, while Labour has left the door open to raising capital gains.Child benefitChild benefit is a benefit paid to parents with children under 16 (or under 20 in approved education or training).The Conservatives have promised to increase the threshold at which high earners start to lose the benefit from £60,000 to £120,000.Sir Keir Starmer, like the Conservatives, has pledged not to raise VAT. (Photo by Stefan Rousseau/PA Images via Getty Images)CoalitionA coalition government is a government formed jointly by more than one political party (for example, by the Liberal Democrats and Conservatives in 2010).ConstituencyThe geographical area that is represented by each MP in the House of Commons.ECHRThe European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) is an international convention which protects human rights in Europe.The Conservative manifesto stopped short of promising to withdraw from the ECHR, which would have made plans such as the plan to deport migrants to Rwanda easier.Exit pollA poll conducted outside polling stations just after people have voted on election day.On election day, the results of Britain’s exit poll are published just after polls close at 10pm and tend to give a more accurate prediction of the result than previous polls produced throughout the campaign.First past the postThe first past the post system is used to elect MPs to the House of Commons.The candidate with the most votes in each constituency becomes MP, and the party with the most MPs becomes the government.This can mean that the winning party actually has a minority of votes cast: in 2019, the Conservatives had 43.6% of the vote.Hung parliamentA hung parliament is where no party has enough seats to form an overall majority. For example, both the 2010 election and 2017 elections resulted in hung parliament.In 2010, the Conservatives formed a coalition with the Liberal Democrats, while in 2017, the Conservatives formed a minority government with a 'confidence and supply' agreement with the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP).Income tax thresholdThe thresholds between the tax-free allowance, basic rate tax and higher rates of tax.Both parties have said they will continue the freeze on income tax thresholds brought in under the Conservatives, which means people pay more tax as more and more people are pushed into higher tax brackets if wages rise.MajorityA party with a majority – more than half of the seats in the House of Commons – has won the election.The number of votes by which an individual MP wins a constituency is also referred to as their majority.ManifestoPolitical parties publish manifestos before a general election, with a set of policies that the party stands for and aims to implement if elected.Manifesto pledges are not legally binding.Marginal seatA seat in which the incumbent MP won by a small majority, meaning a swing is more likely than in a so-called ‘safe seat’ where the MP had a large majority.Net zeroThe UK Government has set a goal for Britain’s emissions to reach net zero – where emission and removal of greenhouse gases reaches equilibrium – by 2050.All major parties are expected to stick to this goal, barring Reform UK.Opinion pollAn opinion poll is a research survey (usually carried out on a representative sample of the electorate) to gauge likely results in an election.Poll‘The polls’ refers to the places where people vote in an election: exit polls and opinion polls refer to two kinds of survey used to predict election results.Postal voteAn absentee vote where the vote is sent in by post.At the 2019 general election, 17.2% of voters across the UK used a postal ballot.Proxy voteA vote where a person who can’t make it to the booth appoints someone to vote for them.In the 2019 election, 0.6% of voters appointed a proxy.PsephologyPsephology is the scientific study of elections and voting and is used to predict and analyse election results.Polling dayThe day when the country places their vote: in the UK 2024 election, this is July 4.PurdahBefore British elections, the country enters purdah, officially known as the ‘pre-election period of sensitivity’.Purdah means that politicians (both local and national) and other people such as civil servants face restrictions on what they can do and announce.Ministers who remain in office can’t announce new funding, or new policies, or anything which might sway voters or make the government more popular.The idea is that public money cannot be spent on the election.Spoiled ballotA ballot paper which has been marked wrongly (for instance with a vote for more than one candidate) will not be counted.Sometimes people spoil ballots deliberately as a protest vote to show dissatisfactionSwing‘Swing’ is the change in voter support for a political party between one election and the next.It is used to analyse the performance of parties in different areas.Tax burdenThe tax burden refers to the total amount of taxes paid by a group (in this case the UK as a whole) as a proportion of total income.The tax burden is currently at its highest in 70 years according to the OECD.The Equality ActThe 2010 Equality Act protects people against discrimination in Britain.The Conservatives want to ‘tweak’ the Act so that sex-based protections only apply on the basis of someone’s biological sex.Triple lockThe triple lock is a guarantee introduced to the state pension in 2010 so it would not lose value in real terms.The guarantee means that the state pension will rise by the highest out of average earnings, inflation as measured by the consumer price index (CPI) or 2.5%.Triple lock plusThe ‘triple lock plus’ is a Conservative policy, which would see the tax-free pension allowance rise every year in line with the triple lock of average wages, inflation, or 2.5% – whichever is highest, to prevent pensioners being pulled into paying income tax.TurnoutTurnout refers to the percentage of people eligible to vote who turn out to vote on election day.In the 2019 election, for example, 67.3% of those eligible turned out to vote.VATValue added tax is added to goods and services sold by VAT-registered companies, and is the third-largest source of government income after income tax and national insurance.Both Labour and the Conservatives have pledged not to raise VAT.Keir Starmer profile: The toolmakers' son vowing to 'rebuild Britain'Rishi Sunak profile: The PM battling to stay in power of election gambleHow to register to vote in the 2024 general electionWhich MPs are standing down before the next election? Full list mappedThe key issues that will decide the electionWhen is the first UK general election TV debate?What is purdah? The strict rule that governs what politicians can and can't say"
